# Becc Holland

- Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=minPll66uek

## Transcript

[Music] Welcome back everyone to the Founders Only podcast. I am super excited today to welcome Beck Holland. Beck is the CEO of Flip the Script, a sales media company on a mission to shift how sellers see the world through the eyes of their buyers. A self-proclaimed victim of the craft, she's a true practitioner at heart, relentlessly driving change in modern sales. Welcome back. >> Hi, thanks for having me. >> Yes. So, let's start with can you share your journey to becoming the founder of Flip the Script? Oh man. Um to the inception of it or my journey since I be or since I I >> inception >> at the inception of it I I would definitely say it was not a from what I think of a prototypical background meaning I didn't always dream of being an entrepreneur. I wasn't someone who you know really wanted to go into business for myself or had that set from when I was um when I was started. It was really I was bitten by a the bug of a a couple of concepts that I believed were different than how the world world saw them and uh when it came to sales. And so kind of an allegiance or responsibility to those concepts. I begrudgingly went into business of like okay I have to see where these concepts go. I have to play them out. I have to do the research and put in the time and see if these can give another option to sellers who want to uh add a level of expertise to the conversation. And so because of that, I sort of flipped the script to do it. >> Awesome. So, how long ago was that? >> Okay. So, coming up on actually five years ago is when I actually started the business. Now, I did a number of different pieces of content. I was in sales tech and martekch um kind of a a I had a kexus around that kind of background beforehand and so I started to do random YouTube videos at like 11 o'clock at night just to get out at some of the concepts were helping my team >> started getting some traction and again it wasn't a I want to get traction for this concept or for any other reason um but they started to take off a little bit and so I I started digging in more and more and more there so I had about two years of precursor of doing different webinars and concepts and training after hours. I did some uh several different sessions for free and you know um so I had about a two-year background before uh before I formally decided to launch the business. >> Awesome. Okay. Okay. So, let's go back to when you were a child. What types of things did you like to do? Were you um entrepreneurial? Where are you from? just tell us a little bit about your background. >> Yeah, so um back as a kid, so I am from Texas originally. Um so I grew up in uh Dallas, Texas. And um some of the things that kind of stand out to my background, well uh first of all, I come from a very technical family. >> Okay. >> So I'm the only one that's even close to the go to market side of the house. My uh dad is or was uh he retired about 10 years ago, but he developed um the fins on missile heads for the government and the defense division for 35 years. My mom was a biology professor. My sister would They're going to kill me if they ever hear this. If they ever hear me admitting this, my sister is a top 1% ER doctors in the nation. So, set the 911 protocol for the state of Florida. Go Florida. >> Wow. >> I mean, she's she's very technical. And then my uh brother is a PhD electrical engineer that works on um transformers and uh electrical grids for the government and then I'm in sales. So it was a very you know interesting household and I spent a lot of my childhood not understanding what they were talking about and not understanding like you know a biologist talks to someone who's in electrical engineering and to me as the outsider it's the same thing. I'm like, all spade a spade a spade. But um I spent a lot of my childhood trying to understand very different technical fields and trying to translate what they were saying to the other person. >> And a lot of my childhood reading, reading, reading, reading, reading. So I fell in love with since I was in middle school at lunch in the bathroom stall reading Charles Dickens and Victor Hugo. And that's where I really, you know, found the love of reading and kind of my literature background. So all those components kind of yielded someone who's really technical but then went into the field of sales as a result. >> Now how did you get into sales? >> So I honestly I kind of tripped fell backwards into it. I was originally going to go to law school like the idea in my head. So I took my LSAT for fun like on the on the the weekend. So I took uh princ courses and I just studied it kind of for fun and I went to law school and uh studied a uh municipal court basically working there >> and I got into it um pretty pretty deeply in terms of pre-law and uh contract law and tort law and uh studied it very in depth and then I had this realization that I'm like when I was watching this judge and he was brilliant like went to Chicago law which is top five in the nation absolutely brilliant really nice guy. And I looked at his life and I thought there is a lot of crap that he has to do. Like 95% of his day is just buried in paperwork. And that I didn't see that being a a passion or something that I wanted to devote 95% of my time into. And so the other option if you're a marketing major, you know, the other option is 60 65% of the interviews were for sales. So I went into sales for a quite technical company right off the bat. Um, it was a electrical HVAC plumbing, heating, lighting company, uh, that worked with governmental buildings and school districts. So, the minimum floor was $2 million for a sale, for instance. And the shortest sales cycle was six months. >> Yes. To that, and came right out of school, right out of school, and they're like, you should sell these multi-million dollar projects. And I didn't know, I mean, HV what HBAC stood for. So I'm like, I have to figure out what the hell what the crap all this stuff is, you know, and I got to figure out how to sell very quickly because this is an enterprise level sale. So that's kind of how I I I started, but it was kind of by accident. >> So So you've created over 135 hours of free sales training content. >> What's the business model or is there one behind giving away so much value for free? I mean that is such a interesting it's the first time that I've been asked oddly enough. Um but I think it's such an interesting question. My passion or my uh almost my my why if you will is I think I believe truly that the sales industry is in a very dangerous spot. M >> so for thousands of years we have gone into the conversation thinking what can we say to get the person to think a certain thing or believe a certain thing or believe that they should buy or come out of the conversation more buyer ready. But the conversation has never truly been on what is good for the buyer, what would the buyer find valuable from the conversation and that being the true northstar. And so coming across there were several different evolutions of it, but there were several different brinks in my my career where I found discovered a concept if you will that would really help the buyer. And so my goal was how do I publish these methods or these thoughts or these concepts so that anyone and everyone who wanted it could have access to it. So I kind of reorded the business model to fit that goal versus came coming into market and that being kind of the secondary tertiary goal. So right off the bat I went to several different tech sponsors and I said hey you know you want leads. Yes. You want people who are interested in this conversation. They're like yeah they're like completely. I'm like I have an idea. Why don't I publish as much free content as I can around how you can sell and how you can prospect and you know everything that that like as much depth as I can go into free decks, free videos, free everything that I can and then anyone who quote unquote gates like I'll hand back to you back as a lead. Now my goal was how can I get that education into the hands of anyone who needs it. I mean if I'm a rep and I'm just coming into the business like what are my options? I can go watch a couple YouTube videos or maybe I can see a trainer and think they have a couple thoughts and I can go to my boss and ask my boss to go to their boss and like can we get them to come in for a day and then they come in for a day and I might get a couple of minutes with them in the hallway but I have no actual access to someone who like can coach me someone who can in depth show me what I need to be doing in my role. So my idea was how can I publish something in a way that they don't need me at all. I mean they can have access to that for free and then justify it on the back end to sales tech sponsors of like you know they'll be watching these videos and then have them as a a sponsorship. So, I didn't even have my head on monetization, but I kind of feel like it was um very Lord of the Rings, like the one who doesn't want the ring is the one who gets and gave me a ring because my goal was you watch these videos and you don't need me at all. And it was a very it was a true like um uh newspaper wideeyed Joey pedalling, you know, thought or or vision. But what ended up happening was, you know, obviously um with with free videos, there's a lot of people who watch them and so people would come to me and say like, "Hey, can you train my team more extensively on this or can you contextualize this the bio persona?" So, how I you know, quote unquote monetized. So, I I paid off the training or the hub using tech sponsors. So, they really footed the bill so that any and everyone Yeah. totally could see see the content. But then on the back end of that came um you know training which is really how I in in the end monetized. >> That is just I love this story so much and I feel like it really your your thought process or how you came about to to build this content model if you will was really super aligned with your whole mission of your business. literally how who the people on the other end, what is it that they need and how do you give them value? How do you help them? And not what are you trying to sell? Like that was literally the mission of your business. So you said that the best practice isn't working and you also just said that sales isn't a dangerous place. Um but the best practice isn't working for sales teams today. So, what's the most some of the most common mistakes that you see B2B SAS founders specifically making in their sales approach or these B2B SAS companies um making in their sales approach and what should they do instead? >> Yeah, that's big question, a good question, but a big question. Um what I mean by it's in a dangerous spot is I don't think there really is any role for the seller. meaning the modern-day seller as is as we've been selling is again how do I come to the conversation and how do I make them believe something or how do I make them say they're in pain or how do I make them admit you know or um agree to a mutual action plan so that they will agree to move forward and sign on the dotted line and do all and I'm like that's great or how do I get them to even admit how much pain they're in and what's the impact if they don't move forward and I'm like that's all great but that's all stuff that they already knew. meaning that's nothing new to them. And if they give you that leverage, if anyone on the selling end and buyers today know this of like if I tell you how bad I'm in pain or I tell you the impact why don't it move forward, I'm going to put you on the spot. Mia, what can you do to me as the seller? If I tell you all the reasons why I need to buy, what would you do to me as the seller? >> Am I the seller or are you the seller? >> If you're the seller and I tell you, >> I'm going to leverage it. I'm going to I'm going to turn it around and and see how I can get you to buy my product by leveraging what the pain you told me. >> Totally. And so buyers today know that even admitting all the current state everything that I know that's at the expense of the buyer of like I can leverage it against you saying why you need to buy or I'm confused why like you said that by this date, you know, if this didn't happen that you wouldn't move forward or I can hold my my guts and pricing so to speak. Why would I give a discount to anyone? you know, who really really needs it. And so when I look at the sales industry and I look at all of the practices that we're doing today, I don't see a I don't see techniques and methodologies that need a little bit of tweaking. I see a fundamental misunderstanding of the people buy. >> So the reasons that people buy is they're in trouble. They have a problem that they need to solve. And so looking at the sales industry, I think why it's respectfully broken. And I I I say that it's broken. I I mean it with all um respect and responsibility for that of you know 85% of AES aren't hitting 76% of quota. 76% of SDRs aren't hitting quota. I mean like the things in the tank and it has been for a while and I feel like everyone's nodding their head and saying like yeah yeah this thing needs to be tweaked a little bit or a little bit or a little bit. I'm like, can we all just like look up for a second? >> Yeah. And like look around and realize this thing needs to be gutted. So the the main thing that I believe um is at the the cexis or the fulcrum of why it's not working is the goal of the seller is to get the person to buy as opposed to the goal of the seller is to find things that the buyer doesn't know and help them with through that and uh misunderstanding or things that they've missed. So there's a number of things that your buyer has missed. Like just from the statistics view, they either have things that they believe that aren't true, which I kind of coin as a misdiagnosis or things that they're completely unaware of at all, which is a misdiagnosis. And all of those opportunities are the opportunities that a seller has to find, add value, and make the world a better place for the buyer. So if that one I think it's a very it's a simple shift. It's not an easy shift because of the ingrained, you know, idea. Like it's almost like if you think about if I were to tell you tomorrow that gravity wasn't real. It's a simple conceptual shift, but it's not an easy one because it affects every single thing in your day and you have believed for the longest time that gravity is real, right? So, if sellers could just change their mindset to my number one northstar is to help this person solve their problem and find things that they don't know about through like throughout throughout that process. And if that if that shift were to simply happen, I think it would you would just see neverending ripple effects of that throughout the conversation of sales. But it isn't. You know, it hasn't yet. So I think that that's the that's the main like punchline that needs to happen for it to it to change the role. >> About 3 years ago, I was hiring my first saleserson for my company. >> Yeah. >> And I had no clue about sales. I mean sales really did seem at the time to me super I don't abstract is not the word I'm going for but it was just so far removed from me right like how you talked about electrical engineering or something like that it really was far away from me as a founder I just couldn't I I I didn't want it was like that that the ugly stepchild I didn't want to have anything to do with it but it's absolutely necessary right to drive revenue >> so I wanted to get out a founder le sales as quickly as possible but I hadn't done the work and we're not even going to go down that path or that conversation of all the things that need founders need to do in order to get out of founder sales that's not really conversation today but um I had hired a salesperson who also had no experience >> and a young person and I was scrambling trying to help them learn sales frameworks and things like that. And I found some really great resources online on YouTube and things like that. And I gave it to them and it still wasn't working and they weren't making any sales. >> Yeah. And finally, I I said to them, um, very casually, I said, you know, why don't you stop worrying about your, and I don't, this is probably wasn't the right way to say this, but why don't you stop worrying about making a sale and making a commission and just try to help these people? >> Yeah, >> we have a solution that actually helps people. Why don't you just take the pressure off yourself and just try to answer their questions, try to be helpful, try to give them the information. Well, that still didn't work for them. >> I'm pretty sure they weren't able to make that mindset shift. That's probably why it didn't happen, but it worked for me. Eventually, I got back in founder sales after hiring two failed salespeople and not able to train them up. And I finally, you know, learned that I needed to document and build a sales process that had been validated and worked and was being tracked in terms of metrics and performance and where we could, you know, reverse engineer the sales the sales math problem. so to speak. But anyway, um I'm I'm curious how you think prospecting, and I know this is this is a little bit of a segue here from the conversation, but how do you think prospecting is impacted by this concept that you have? And I I'll be more specific because I know prospecting is like this really big bucket of a really big topic, but if you take the position as a salesperson that let's just try to help people and drive value >> and not try to sell people. >> If you don't prospect correctly, you still don't end up with sales. So, I'm curious about how what you think about that and what needs to change or what the focus needs to be for sales teams to perfect the prospecting process so that they can flip the script on the sales process. >> Yeah, that is a good it's a good point and it's a good question. And I know know if you meant it to be a point, but I think um well what I mean by help is helping the buyer in their role to solve the problem that they need to solve and some problems that they didn't know existed at all. So inherently what comes along with that and I think what what happened in your experience too is I can't just try to generally be helpful. I need to know their role and know their role even better and more than they do. >> So, if I'm selling to a CTO, I don't need to learn how to objection handle. I don't need to learn how to whatever have a a permissionbased opener or pattern interrupt. The thing that I need to learn above all are what are the metrics that a CTO is measured on? What are the industry averages of those metrics? at what point do they cause a problem so that when they say that they don't have a problem with network latency and I'm like what is it and they say it's at a certain rate and I'm like well actually industry average is this anything below a you know blank is is going to cause server uptime issues uh or server downtime issues so you know it the the value is not only how are they doing in comparison to their peers but what are the things that they believe that aren't true so to be able to do that and I think the hump For most salespeople, it's like, well, how on earth am I going to, you know, pick a, let's say that you have six buyer personas. You sell into CIO and IT director and you sell into procurement, you sell into HR, and you sell into finance, and you sell into like those are very, very different bio personas. someone looks at that hump and says like how on earth could I add value to a CFO for instance when I've never been a CFO when I've never been in finance and that was the same problem that I had as a kid what on earth thing could I add to the conversation when I've never been an electrical engineer or I've never been a mechanical engineer or civil engineer or you know looked into medicine like what value can I add to the conversation and I think just breaking it down to where and I've used um you know, uh, statistical research of like, okay, in 15 minutes, how can I find the top 20 metrics that this person cares about? What's the industry average? At what point do they cause a problem? All of a sudden, you know much more than your buyer does? Because I'm like, if you take a step back, like, just because I'm in sales doesn't mean like, if I'm listening to this, and I would ask myself this question, just because I'm in sales, do I know the average open rate for cold emails? Do I know at what point it means that I'm typically missing quota? Do I know at what point uh at uh the typical industry average reply rate? Do I know the open rate that means that I have an email deliverability problem? So industry average open rate is 15 to 25%. Industry average reply rate is 0.5 to 7%. If you have anything less than a 50% open rate, then you have a deliverability issue period. So instead of quality, you should be focusing on deliverability. You can learn that in 15 minutes. So I'm like just learning those statistics and focusing on when you look at an onboarding program and I think a a lot of the things that probably came inherent to you is you knew about the buyer, right? So you have a sales rep that comes in and it's like well be helpful and they're like well I don't know about the buyer. Like founders start their starting ground is I know a problem for the buyer because I am the buyer. And so they go in with all that problem knowledge like in their head, but then someone with with quoteunquote sales experience or none comes in and says, "I'm gonna try and be helpful." And it's like, "Well, how can you be helpful if you don't know anything about the buyer?" So they start to generally be helpful of like, uh, here's a Diet Coke and here's a, you know, like in your personal life, you have kids and one of them's sick, so here's some like, I don't know, like wipes for their nose or like all these generic things, which is fine. But trust is defined as I have to trust in your uh that you're telling me the truth. I have to trust in your agenda. But the third element of it is I have to trust in your ability. And salesp people your your ability cannot be objection handling. That's not helpful for the buyer. Your ability is in their actual role. So the goal of prospecting or discover like I see selling and prospecting as just two forms of the same thing. In prospecting, if I'm going outbound, Mike, you have to keep in mind, object emotion stays emotion. Object arrest stays at rest. If you're going outbound, your buyer's at rest, which means based on what they know, the pain's not bad enough or the impact's not bad enough for them to actually do something about it. So unless So even if they admit that pain and they tell you the details, they're not going to move forward. Industry average conversion for inbound is 35%. Outbound is six. Six because they don't have a problem that's big enough. So I'm like when you're prospecting into someone you if you're leading any email that says we work with people who struggle with blank by definition if they can say I'm in that group it means the problem isn't bad enough for them to do something about because you're going outbound. So you have to find something new that they didn't know about that beforehand they were fine. But now knowing what they know now about themselves, they're saying, "I need to buy and move forward or change because I didn't know what this prospector just brought up." But all of that is going to come back to how much do I know about the buyer that I'm calling into. If you don't know anything, it does not matter what permissionbased opener you use, what little hook or what little objection handle, they won't want to talk to you. The stats will show that 82% of buyers don't want to talk to a seller regardless of the selling pro process. if it's for an enterprise software solution or stick of gum. So, I'm like, if you don't change that dial that you know something about them, you can say it in any tone that you want, but at the end of the day, they're not going to want you around. Meet Brandy, your all-in-one content creation sidekick designed to make creating and managing your brand's content effortless. Let me show you how it works. Got a team? Bring them in. With Brandy, everyone can pitch in to create content that clicks. Managing multiple brands? Easily switch between profiles so you're always ready for the next project. The brand voice analyzer ensures your content always sounds like you. Stuck on where to start? Check out our handy prompt templates. They're like creative jump starts to get things moving. Every edit, every version saved with content revision history. Nothing gets lost. And you can always pick up right where you left off. Everything your brand needs, it's all right here in your brand asset library. Stay organized like a pro with custom folders for every project. No more hunting for that one file. Brandy does too and is ready to help you connect or in any language really. Speak to your audience in the words they know best. Need ideas or have questions? Just ask Brandy. Save time with custom snippets. Your mostused phrases always handy when you need them. Keep your notes, links, and ideas in one spot so you're never hunting for that one piece of inspiration. Get personalized content tips and SEO strategies to help your brand stand out online. Join Brandy today and make your content creation smarter, faster, and better. Let's create something amazing. on rand. >> No, it was not. No, it was not. It was great. Absolutely great. Absolutely great. For founders who are in the 1 to10 million revenue range, what what would you say are some of the most critical sales processes or playbooks if you you know can if if you subscribe to that um those tools that they should have in place before they scale their sales team. What do they need in place before you start building out that sales team? >> Yeah. Um, well, I would say I'm I'm going to try and go an angle that it probably has not been said before because there's a lot of common heavy hitters of like, oh, well, you need to have stages set. You need to have, you know, the value prop set. I think the number one thing that is not set for people that they normally need need to have, but they don't have, well, two things. The first is is that you have an exa somewhat exhaustive library of what it means to be your buyer and that when your seller is onboarding that that's all they're inundated with. It doesn't sellers don't fail because they don't know how to log into a CRM. Sellers don't fail because they don't know how to change the stages from negotiation to close lost or proposal or whatever that is. Sellers fail because they don't know about the buyer. So I'd say the first thing that needs to happen and before anything it's like if I'm onboarding I usually I'm going to get the founder story and the vision and the why and the you know okay this is Tina and marketing and like you know on and on and on before any of that or certainly supplementary to that is like here is two weeks on our buyers. We have six buyers. We're going to spend a day on each. We're going to do the morning on their metrics. we're going to do, you know, the afternoon on the industry averages and we're going to do it, you know, the uh finish with at what point those cause a problem for each single buyer for two weeks. So, I'd say that is that is inherent and not a customer story of how they used your product. like the the story is fine, but I need to know at scale what is the specific problem or metric they're attacking as a buyer using hypothetically my product but just in general what are the the statistics that they're worried about what are the numbers that they're worried about if they're a buyer they are responsible for number the only difference between buyer personas internally is what KPIs am I responsible for you know so it's like what are those an exhaustive library around that I would say that's the first one. Uh the second one, and this is this is more of a warning warning one, something I've seen a lot of um organizations do is they will have one seller and um they're like, well, this seller is uh having 200 demo, you know, initial discovery meetings a month. And so to get to this number, we need to have 800 discovery meetings a month. So, I just need to hire three more sellers hypothetically than it >> ever. >> Like, and it's the basic math misunderstanding that I see almost every company go through. I'm like, "Yeah, but those 200 discovery meetings, 198 of them were inbound." So, when you hire three other people, you just took that 198 and you just divided it among three people. So now you have 50, you know, 50 inbound meetings per per rep and they have to make the 150 up that you're expecting them to do on outbound >> and then even started the outbound motion. So they get to somewhere around I don't know 285 as a group because they started to do outbound and it was like actually quite good. you know, they booked 15, 20 outbound meetings a month, but they're like, "What? What the hell? Why are we so far short of 800 because they didn't realize that inbound and outbound, you need to take inbound as a quote unquote given and say, okay, from an outbound perspective, what am I expecting each one of these sellers to do?" Because all I'm going to do with that inbound is cut that pot further and further and further as I do. So, you need to account for that of like, I'm going to put this pot aside and say, I I expect or I think that a seller would be able to book five, 10, you know, 15 meetings realistically on outbound and do the m walk back into the math that way as opposed. >> Uhhuh. Uhhuh. So, start from like the rep what the capacity is of a rep rather than reverse engineering like your go your sales goals. Totally. I'm like, well, I need 800 discovery meetings and so I just hire three more. And I'm like, but the inbound is going to stay the same, you know? So, I I think those are that's people need to keep in mind when they're thinking about how do I quote unquote scale this thing? How you scale it is, you know, either marketing efforts and you need to account for that or, you know, but from the sales rep perspective, when you're hiring a sales rep, the only thing you can really expect is, you know, outbound and then inbound, >> right, in terms of activities. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. So, how do you feel? And you talked you just talked about this a little bit, but let's talk about cold outreach as as as it's been impacted by AI. So, um you know, so many people uh in the sales industry will say, you know, you got to do the cold outreach. Um it's it's absolute key part of your prospecting and and and building your pipeline. Um but as someone who is not doing active sales every day, I'm you know, gosh, please leave me alone. I mean, it's everywhere. It it is it's it's so pervasive. Uh so for me honestly uh I feel like I don't want to do cold outreach because I'm just like it's it's it's such I don't even know how to even explain as as a founder of an AI company PS right so I'm not knocking AI by by any stretch but it's just like how do we find this balance in the sales from the sales perspective of when and how much cold outreach do we do now that AI has really overrun it? Um how does it fit into the tactical plan? Does that question make sense? >> Yeah. I mean how how does are you saying how does AI impact the role of a prospector today? How can they use it and when can they use it? Or >> like h how more so how do you determine how much cold outreach you should do if you are considering the impact of AI as part of that decision? So, like let's say let's say that you are um you know a sales leader and you're like hey AI is a tool we're going to use it. I don't care that uh all of my competitors are now using it and that the buyer can't tell most of the time, especially because you, as you said, a lot of people think that they can just write a good hook and not have that key information, helpful information in there. So, if everybody's doing the same thing and it's hard to distinguish from you and your competitors as you're using AI, how do you decide how much cold outreach to do or do you just not do it? I mean, I just feel like it's really um a problem for it's a personal problem for me that I feel other people must be dealing with, other founders who are are afraid to do uh AI enabled cold outreach because it's like I don't want my brand tainted by that. >> Yeah, totally. >> Yeah, totally. Oh, well, I I I first of all think that's commendable of just thinking about I don't want this email landing in someone's inbox because I know it's not helpful. So, why would I want, you know, but it's so interesting to me the conversation of AI um because people are like, "Okay, well AI can do so much stuff." And I'm like, "Well, hold on. Before AI, it still wasn't working. So now you're talking about putting gas on that and cutting, you know, AI is, let's say hypothetically 85% of human intelligence. So you're talking about cutting that down 15% and then ramping up the volume. Like the thing was in the tank beforehand. So I'm like I and I say this with all empathy. I think it was because again there was a misunderstanding of what is prospecting? People thought, okay, well, prospecting is telling people about my product. And it's like, you know, okay, we're the number one blank who helps blank do blank. You know, we work with blank blank and blank 15 minutes, quick call, quick, you know, cheers 15 minutes. Hope you're well. Hope you and your kids are safe certain times. Like that is the template. And everyone thinks it's so different. It's like I can name 250 words. I was really impressed by your profile. You know, my CEO sent me your way. I'm like, I could go on a rattle of like the 250 words. absolutely >> use in the in the in the template, but it's like the template beforehand and afterwards for AI should have always been in my opinion if I can teach you something hypothetically about the problem that you're trying to solve. That is the outreach. People are not well sellers are not losing deals because the status quo hasn't been overcome. There's status quo and there's indecision. So, it's like status quo is I'm losing the deal because they don't think the problem's big enough. And you lose 40% of your deals there. 60% of the time you lose it to indecision. They do think the problem's big enough, but they still don't close anyway. And the three things that they're statistically scared of is that they've picked the wrong product. There's too much information for them to be able to disseminate which what's relevant. But the biggest one is outcome uncertainty. that they're not sure that even if they bought your the right product and even if they use the right way, they're still going to get their outcome. So, inner enters omission bias, which is two to threex psychologically stronger that they want to stay still versus making an action and like messing up the decision, not being able to hit the outcome. So, people are scared of what happens if they take action, not what happens if they don't. So most people are coming in and they're trying cost of an action sale or ROI sale. Here's all the benefits and things that are going to happen. You're going to save time and you're going to save money or they throw discounts at them or they do the cost of an action play which is the most dangerous one. They're like this is what's going to happen to you if you don't stay still. I'm like that's fine but Brendan they are scared what happens if they don't stand still and if that decision doesn't actually yield what they wanted it to yield. That's why they're introducing so many stakeholders. You have like upwards of 15 stakeholders in mid-market deals. It's not because they want everyone's take. They want >> totally they're like >> responsibility out. >> Totally. I brilliant. I want to like dole out this responsibility of what happens if the decision goes wrong. So the thing that needs to to decrease is their fear that they're going to make the wrong decision. So people attack that a lot of times by saying like I'm just going to tell them that I'm confident or I'm X Y and Z. Like the one thing that's going to help them is if they not if they know more, yes. But if they have someone that clearly knows more than they do that's attached to them that it's almost like I think of like can I do one pull-up? Maybe, maybe not. But I have a goal of doing five pull-ups. Like that's the outcome. It's not that I need to get better at the pull-ups. It's like does someone come underneath me and start pushing me up that I'm like with this person of course I can do five pull-ups. I could do 10 pull-ups or 15. And that is the role of the seller. So I'm like from a prospecting perspective if you come in and you're like hey what is your email open rate if you don't mind me asking. The reason that I ask is industry average is 15 to 25. Anything below 50 and you have an email deliverability problem. If you do me a favor go back and check internally. If it's anything less than 35 give me 15 minutes and I can give you a couple of quick tips of how like custom tracking links DKIM demark SP. like if nothing else if you never want to talk to me again you can walk away and take those you know out to your team. So it's like the 15minute meeting or the 30 minute meeting is to help them understand more whether they use you or not how to solve that problem of email deliverability and how to get in a better spot in terms of prospecting. But people instead they say I'm going to say I'm going to get crystal clear on who we work with. I'm like they don't care. They don't care who you work with. They care. Can you help me? and if you can help me, how can you help me? And I'm like, the first leading point of that is like, here's a statistic of people who a clear identifier, not saying like, do you have bad email open rates? Do you have bad cold emails? They can't even answer that. What's bad? You have to like weigh in on the decision of what they think is bad. But if you ask them a clear statistic of like, are you anywhere from blank to blank? Are you sending emails Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday morning from 8 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. statistically? because I know that that's the worst time of day to be sending them. They don't know that and that is the gap of like where I can add value. So from a prospecting perspective I think a like AI can be extremely helpful. It has been to me. It's been helpful to me though to get to know my bio better, right? Not to write a cleaner template or to yeah X Y and Z. I'm like anything over 50 emails a day and it's going to cook your deliverability anyway. So really the northstar metric is how do I send, you know, 45 emails or 40 emails to people that have a piece of personalized information that hooks into something from a relevance perspective that they didn't know about their role. If you can ask them a question and then tell them briefly why you're asking that question of like, you know, are you uh are you sending emails Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, you know, before 12:00 p.m. like more than 60% of your emails sent. The reason I ask is it statistically speaking Wednesday, Thursday, Friday to five minutes before the hour and after the hour incre increasingly throughout the day and throughout the week are going to be your better hit times, but the majority of teams are sending a Monday morning. If you do me a favor, go back and check internally and if this happens and like you're off the hook. If you're anything above a 50% open rate, I don't even want to talk to you again. like I honestly want to take tips from you but if you're below 45% can you give me a shot Thursday at 2 to you know and the meeting becomes a you know you're I hate the idea of being salesy >> you right it's like I hate the idea that and sellers hate being salesy too they know it so I'm like turn the conversation into how can I figure out enough things about them to where my advice is crystal that helps them whether they work with me or not and then no next steps. I'm like it was nice meeting you. Here's the proposal with these three options. If you need any help, let me know. I'm not going to send you any more emails though. And like you know then whether you work with them or not, at least in your the crux of your being, they can very likely solve their problem better because of your existence. >> This is so great. I'm I'm I'm having a thought now of how this parallels to finding your husband or wife dating. I really think like because you know just on the first date like am I trying to get you to marry me? No, I'm not. I'm trying to learn everything I can about you to see if it's a match. >> Yeah. that this is really what you're talking I mean I I see a parallel here very much and then what what do people do when they go on a date a first date with someone and they're like oh my god this person's marriage material I better snap them up before somebody else does you know so I think it's uh it's it's it's great it's great um okay so we've um we've talked about a little bit about metrics but not too much. Do you actually you have talked about metrics but interestingly enough you haven't talked so much about sales metrics you've talked about buyers metrics >> right >> I love that I mean really I really love that so what about let's talk a little bit about sales metrics and signals that what you're doing is right >> beyond the uh revenue going up which is of course the most important thing right? Closing deals. Are there any other signals or or metrics that should be um that are really important to track to determine the health of your sales process? >> Oh yeah. Uh healthier sales process. Okay. Well um so you want to go prospecting first or selling first? >> Okay. Prospecting. So uh a industry average of someone who's full-time prospecting. They're going to send around 35 to 40 emails a day. I'd say anything less than 50 in your clear in terms of deliverability. Um, and they're making around 40 dials a day, but those are only yielding about four connects. So I'd say the most the uh first interesting thing that I would say to do with your teams is instead of Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday morning or all day like doing the prospecting efforts um equally, I would spend Monday and Tuesday doing the account research and writing the emails and like doing all the the background work of the one-on- ones or like it do any of that on Monday and Tuesday. And then Wednesday afternoon, Thursday afternoon, Friday afternoon is when you're doing all your actual prospecting, when you're sending the emails, when you're actually making the dials, when you're having the conversations, that's just where you're going to get more pickups. So, I'd say that's the first interesting one. Um 15 to 25% is the average open rate. Again, anything less than 50% and you have an email deliverability problem. So, one of the biggest ones that I think that people don't know about is email deliverability. So what that means is there's email delivery and email deliverability. Email delivery is did the did the servers of the uh inbox provider for my prospect actually received the email. That should be 99%. You have soft bounces and hard bounces. Soft bounces like the um the servers are down. Hard bounces is you had the wrong information. But that's not where you lose most people. Uh email deliverability is once this uh server got the email, where did it go? So it could go to spam, it could go to social promotions, it could go to the primary inbox, only 59% of emails actually make it to the primary inbox. So the bigger conversation is instead of thinking just about quality is how do I get more of my emails actually in that primary inbox. So a couple of the tips that I I tell people less links the better. So if you have, you know, your a link to your website and a link to a phone number and a link to a piece of content, a link to a piece, like almost guaranteed they won't they won't deliver it. So basically what and I say Google has 20,000 engineers on staff. I'd guess 19,000 of them are after us. Meaning, I kid you not, I think they are. And what they're looking for is nonhuman behavior. They're like, "Okay, does this person look like a robot or does this person not look like a robot?" I'm like, "Y'all, it's their full-time job to count out like people like us, you know, pew dweebs just like me." So, the things that they're looking for um anything that contributes or is bad upon the inbox uh experience for the person receiving it. So, anytime that someone opens your email, forwards your email, replies to your email, saves it from spam, or marks you as a contact, you get positive deliverability points. Anytime someone marks you as spam, says unsubscribe, deletes your email, especially if they delete before opening, it's negative deliverability points. And your deliverability score or your domain health is over time and it's as a team. So if I do something, you know, negative, it's going to affect Mia. If Mia does something positive, it's going to affect me. So I my biggest tips would be think or look into a custom tracking link, look into DKIM, look into Demar, look into SPF. That's 50% of deliverability is the technical end. And the other 50% of deliverability is um traits and habits. So I would take remove all the links that you can uh I would uh look into a certain amount of words that are going to flag. So uh free is for sure going to be the most deletious, but even ones like discount, off trial offer problem solution in increase, any of those words are going to increase the chance it's not delivered. you're okay on images. Anything less than four gifs will act or gifs, however you want to say it, will actually hurt you. Um, any kind of uh LinkedIn, if you were to say like your LinkedIn profile in the subject line, it's going to hurt you because it's going to flag it social promotions and subject lines are all the same. So, every single subject that you send or email that you send should have a different subject line because why would you need to send the same subject line to multiple people? So even if it's I send five of the same subject line and Mia does, but it's to a completely different people, it's going to count it as the same domain. So I say um that's a very important statistic. Another important statistic, really important statistic is uh inbound conversion. So only um 9% of people who raise their hand of I want to see your product actually get a first meeting with an AE. So like because a pro Yeah. Whoops. Yeah. Here's what's sucks is in totally >> percent. The highest I've ever seen is 22.5. The lowest I've seen is four, but the average is nine of I become a hand raiser. Look at your face. >> I'm just trying. I'm waiting for the pen to drop. How is this possible? >> So, I know. Okay. So, anything after basically five minutes, if you reach out after five minutes that you're you're toast from a conversion perspective. Here's what's even more dangerous. 70% of people are going to end up going with the person who the vendor who gets back with them first, right? So, let's talk about if they request a demo on the weekend. Let's talk about if they request demo after hours. So, anytime you change channels, if you're like, "Thanks for your demo request." and then you email them, you already scour out about 40% of people because if they email address, >> it might not even end up in their end up in their inbox. So, I would look into that process very carefully. And the justification is, well, I want to make sure I protect my AE's calendar. I'm like, you're protecting it pretty tight. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yep. >> I don't want to to go away. So, you're you're scouring off anyone that's actually interested. So that's definitely a statistic I would look into. Um but yeah, time uh time of oh another one is no shows. So you are four times more likely essentially to get a no-show if you scheduled the meeting uh in the morning versus the afternoon for the prospect. So the day is immaterial uh relatively speaking. Now Friday is a little bit higher on no shows but uh same day is the best. anything outside of five days basically that you're scheduling the meeting and you're going to see a massive drop off. So, I'd say under five days and in the afternoon is when I would schedule for um no shows. And the last statistic I would say from the selling perspective is if you offer a discount or you try to sell ROI or you try to sell COI meaning you're like remember what happens when you said blah blah blah I'm confus you b kiss the deal goodbye like it will it's going to turn them it's going to triple down on their fear. You're using fear when they're already afraid. They're already afraid it won't work and you're going full court press with more fear. So they're just going to ghost you. They're going to ghost you and the deal is over. 84% likelihood. So I'd say those important statistics I would say from prospecting and selling that people need to keep in mind, you know, whenever they're they're coming to tech. >> Yeah, that inbound one is killer, right? >> Yeah. Wow. Yeah. >> 9%. Get them. No, that's why I mean that's really why these uh demo requests and things like that or scheduling meetings they really need to be there needs to from my perspect from my opinion the uh the the the I guess the form the inbound form needs to pre-qualify >> automatically and then from there allow them to instantly book the qualified people. >> Brilliant. that that is has >> what you said there if people were to do that they're like no I want to get them on a call I'm like why so you can ask them the same bant questions like >> if they're the decision you are costing yourself I'm like >> the amount of just based on that like to your point >> yep >> wild your process kind of booking this I was like she is on point I was like just your level of detail and the level of context that came with it I was I'm a I'm a I'm a fan on a side note. So, >> I got approval, y'all. Okay. >> For real. I was like the context it came with in the meeting reminders. I was like, man, I bet you she sees no turn on that inbound. >> Nope. >> Yeah. Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. >> So, let's talk about how AI is impacting scaling content creation specifically. So, how do you and and I mean you really are uh far ahead of your so many of your colleagues in in the in the sales space in terms of um building an uh authentic or scaling your content authentically. Sorry. Um so how do you feel about AI assisted content specifically for the purpose of scaling content? Um, and how can you or other founders maintain that voice, that authenticity, that differentiation, brand positioning while leveraging AI? >> Yeah. >> Um, you know, I log in to LinkedIn or wherever and at this point I just feel like it's the same post over and over and over and over and over again. And it makes me so sad because the goal has become how do I produce content? But I'm like the north star should be I have a different idea that I have, you know, I have I have all um allegiance to of like I need to get this idea out because it's different because I want to like the goal shouldn't even necessarily be um that I get in front of people. Like I hear people say this all the time. And they're like, "If you want to get known for something, pick a topic and start topic talking about it." I'm like, "Do you have any idea how selfish that is?" >> I'm like, "For the craft or for the topic?" And I'll hear the idea or the the concept of there's no original content. And I'm like, "Well, that sucks because we have original problems that we have not solved yet." So in my opinion, my my plea with the community would be if you have a point of view or you have an idea that has in your actual practice you've seen turned things around that you need to think about yes a couple of items of like how does this scale or apply to other people but those need to be the voices that come forward and how do I scale that opinion versus how do I just start talking. I mean, I look through the dross and it's not I'm not saying this disrespectfully. I'm almost saying this with almost a a tinge of anger of like, hey, yeah, we need to clean out all this sludge. I don't even know what this is. We need to get pave the way to the because I know they're out there. I know there are other content creators that are out there that have original ideas or have original things that are working in their practice, you know, and I'm like, well, the first part is just put down the mic if you don't have one of those. It can't be, let me come up with a playbook because I have a webinar later. It should be I have this playbook and I have to go on this webinar because of it like that. Until that math is correct, I don't think that the, you know, I'm going to say this and people are probably going to want me dead, but I'm like, I don't think that the content community is worth much until that that math is reversed of, you know, it should be scaling and and putting the megaphone on not only the voices, but the concepts and the ideas that will make, you know, make a difference and actually change the industry and change people's thought pattern for the better. So I'm like if I at the end of my career or when I'm I'm dead or whatever if people think of me I hope the only thing that comes to their mind is concepts that it has nothing to do with me of like concepts that actually truly worked in their practice and affected their day-to-day better. If not then my career was worth nothing. It meant nothing you know. So it in in terms of AI there are a lot of things that you can do to support once you do have those opinions. But I think if those opinions aren't developed first and aren't the the the impetus behind someone coming into market, I you know, I'm kind of like I I you know, I kind of wish I could delete your profile for a minute of like let's just put the mute button of like there there are some people out there, you know, who have these ideas and I know that they're out there because sometimes in the trenches I'll come across someone and I'm why haven't you? And they're like, "Oh, I'm not going to get involved with that." And I'm like, you know, I'm like, I have to put aside my my own selfish like, you know, self-righteous indignation for a second that I'm like, okay, everyone's just after, you know, what they're after. I'm not not going to question I'm not after anyone's money or I'm not after anyone's vote or after anyone's, you know, whatever. But I think that that's important that if someone does have an idea that you foster that idea, that you strengthen that idea, that you put that idea through the fire, and then you do something about that idea. I didn't want to start flip the script. I didn't want to do my own taxes. I still don't want to be an entrepreneur. >> Amen. >> I really don't. I mean, most of my have to do this thing. I'm like, I don't understand. like I feel like a a a Labrador retriever walking on a grate, you know that I'm going to do this, you know, but I'm like the the other thing I don't want to do do is have my ideas if they could help someone else die with me because I didn't want to do my taxes for myself. And so, you know, I'm like I'm like start it's not necessarily of like start you know people are like sometimes they'll say like oh I have imposttor syndrome so what I should do is look in the mirror and say I'm not an imposttor. I'm like or you should become less of an imposttor you know that like I'm trying to learn French. I moved to Paris and I didn't know any right. I don't need to go hype myself up in the mirror that I know more French. I just need to learn more French. Like that's what helps me in the the daytoday. So, I think if we could have a turn in that content community of let's not only get back to what's important, but I need to genuinely ask myself is the idea that I have, do I know that it works? Have I actually seen it in practice? And is it different than everything else that I see out there? If those three questions aren't answered, I don't think the the content button should hit you should hit play, right, for for the market's sake. And I know that that's completely selfish and it's completely I I have the luxury of saying that meaning from a a fiscal point of view. I understand that some people just, you know, need to make money and whatever it is, but I just I'm hungry for those. There's a certain amount of people Steve Jobs, Jack Dorsey, whoever it is of like their contribution to society was just moving the craft forward. That's what it was. And I'm I'm hungry for where those other 01% are, 0.02% 02% are 003% are that um that that can do that for the craft because it needs it. I mean it's in a really you know bad spot. So how can we find those people? How can we get those people to mic? How can we foster those people? And then how can we use AI to back up those opinions to get those opinions out to as many people as need them is is where my head's kind of out. So what I hear you saying overall is that um it's important that we ideulate and be clear on where we can be thought leaders and where our expertise lies and what you know kind of flesh that out from the human perspective first and then leverage AI as a tool to literally scale the production of the content around the ideas that you own. >> For sure. For sure. Totally agree. >> AI has been so helpful for me to in a snapshot find out the metrics that someone is metricked on. So I can walk into a training at this point and I I can say to a client like I can say to a room full of 150 sellers, I would guess I know more about your buyer than 98% of the sellers in this room. Here's what's scary. I learned that on the drive here and the reason I can do that is because of AI. However, to your point, AI is just a, you know, it's it's it's it's a tool. So, it's where is the tool pointed at and why that's the more important thing that we can we can use the tool to support. So, what is one book, podcast, or resource that has profoundly impacted your perspective and mindset as a founder? >> Oh, man. Okay. I'll I'll name a dead or alive. Dead or alive? >> Let's go with Let's go with uh dead. >> Dead. Charles Dickens for sure. Charles Dickens. All three of the Bronte sisters ex and Bronte most um most importantly uh Victor Hugo he wrote lay miz Rob for every or lay miz is what people call it um uh Thomas Hardy. Yeah, I would say that's a good start. That's a good start in terms of uh George Elliot. Um yeah. >> How did how did they impact your mindset as a founder? >> Uh Dickens specifically uh made me not scared more like he he reversed the math on being detailed for me of like and and he drove home for me you don't have to say something to say something it's actually more valuable when you don't through all of his different you know uh writing like he never quote unquote did a biography now technically David Copperffield is supposedly mirrored to his life but he was paid per word and so all of his writings. I mean, his sentences Yeah. are like a paragraph long. I mean, each one of them that you're like, "Okay, I think I understand what he said." And this is what I was reading since I was, you know, very, very young. >> And uh and how he changed my mindset as a a founder. I think that everyone takes it out on their community and their um their uh prospects or their their buyers too lightly. They think that they know so little, you know, and so they're very simple with them. And I find that you can be complex with someone and actually there's a lot of value to that. So most of my content is not short form. I very rarely have short form content. It's a two and half hour video. It's like good luck everyone. Here's here's the deck. And everyone's always telling me snippets back snippets. Like just keep it short blah blah blah. And I'm like I think that there's value to longer format. Like I can't I can't get a real point across on a LinkedIn post. I can't change the way someone really thinks. I might change their mood for a second, >> but I can't change how someone really thinks by by you know some kind of short post. Like there is there is a lot of glory in the detail. I mean meaning there's a lot of change in the details. And so I think Dickens changed changed my mind from the ground up about that because of how how long-winded um his his wording was. um living Bill James. Uh he was the creator of Saber, the Society of American Baseball Research and Saber Metrics. So, anyone who's seen Moneyball, he's briefly mentioned in there, but he was basically the the supporter of uh Billy Bean. So, Billy Bean took a couple of his metrics and made moneyball happen. And then, um uh Anna Winour uh so she's uh Miranda Priestley in the Devil Wears product. She's actually real. She's the creative director of cond Nast. Um >> that's a M mech Gala lady, right? >> Yes. Same one. So, um, her and Bill James would probably be my two living
