# Guillaume Moubeche

- Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7qM-R0MnPis

## Transcript

I've never had a salary. I've never had a bonus. I've never had anything. I believe that if the company does well, then I will do well. If the company's not doing well, then I won't. When I'm signing off on the $37 million wire transfer, I was like, I'm now doing this for life. I own 10 under 10% of Maripost. I would never come to work. It would just wouldn't make any sense. Like the amount of suffering and pain that we have to go through. I just don't know that there'd be much motivation or drive if that was the case. I don't aspire to be the CEO of a public company. Today on Billions, I'm sitting [music] down with Ross Andrew Pakette, the CEO who broke every Silicon Valley rule. He bought out his investor before building a $1.7 billion empire. He founded Maro Post in 2011 and by 2016 it ranked number seven on the Profit 500 as one of Canada's fastest growing companies. Ross, thanks a lot for being here. >> Yeah, thanks for having me. in the early days like when you co-ounded Maropast I think it was around like 2011 >> initially you had like kind of a lifestyle business I think you you wanted to make like 500k a year supporting like 10 10 clients when exactly did you realize that this could actually be something much bigger >> yeah to be honest with you as as you said that was the plan from the get-go so it was to just provide customers with a better service but just as you said a bit of a lifestyle business between 2015 and 2017. Um, we didn't change our dynamic. We had maybe, you know, six or seven people within the company. Um, but in about 28 months, we went from 300,000 in revenue to about 27 million in revenue. And we weren't doing anything different. We were just we were still selling customers. We were just continuing to develop the product. And I think that well, that wasn't the plan. It's just the, you know, kind of the functionality or the platform that we had built at the time just caught up with what the market really needed. And uh you know that just kind of exploded as you you were saying earlier. >> Insane. And uh when exactly was the time you you actually took funding? >> Uh it was uh late 20 uh late 2016. >> Okay. >> But it was it was an all secondary uh uh round. So we really just took the money put it into a trading account. um you know we can get into some of the details of that but um it you know I think it was fortuitous for for everyone because we were just or you know we or I was just so far away from the the you know kind of funding process like I had no experience in that I was just trying to build a great business and that doesn't necessarily or doesn't always align with sort of the you know VCP model that exists out there. >> What do you feel is like the the biggest difference? >> I think profitability is the big thing. So back then we were about 75% IBIDA or free cash flow which is I understand that is crazy uh no matter what I mean most companies their that's gross margin not their net um so that was I think that was the big differentiator and you know back then you know now of course right you know when we're talking about sort of typical B2B SAS companies people are looking for that profitability um but there just aren't very many companies who've ever even achieved you know any sort of positivity from that side of things So when I think of the 2016 uh uh time frame that was all about growth growth at all costs let's spend 50 million let's spend 100 million you know let's build some of the businesses obviously that have been extremely successful to date um come to mind there but uh at the same time um you know a lot of failures also and it's a good 99% of the companies are failing out there that you know took that model or took that approach. Yeah, definitely. And when it comes like to the aid margin, was it like this uh from design like uh by design from the beginning or uh did you see it like increasing over time? Because going to like 70% a bit margin at some point is just insane. And >> that just it just happened. That wasn't really the goal. I mean, >> there was no percentage goal. The goal was of course to have a profitable business. Like I I don't have I've never had a salary. I've never had a bonus. I've never had anything. I believe that I do, you know, if the company does well, then I will do well. If the company's not doing well, then I won't, unfortunately. And that's the, you know, kind of the riskreward that we take as founders. Um, but that was I think we were just at an extreme time where the revenue was growing so much and there was just so few people in the company, right? I was the VP of marketing or I was the, you know, chief sales officer. I was the the head of finance and so on. And and to be honest with you, that was my favorite time in building the business. Um, you know, every day I was I was um my partner at the time, she kind of said, you know, you can work 18 hours a day if you want because clearly you love it. Like you just wake up, you go to your desk and you're smiling, you know, for most of the day. Um, but you have to take Neo for dinner every time you sign a new customer. Well, the problem was we were signing new customers like every day or every second day. We created this really great, you know, environment, really great experience. And we continued to hire these very, you know, sort of young and hungry individuals into the business at that time as well. So the energy was always very very strong. >> Yeah. It it reminds me, you know, of that uh photo. I don't know if you've seen it, but it's a you know, it's a guy is he just started his company and on the website it's written like team members and then it's a photo of him but in different like outfits and different like haircuts [laughter] see that you know for different roles you mean. >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. [laughter] >> Exactly. >> Yeah. And uh you were talking about like hiring and uh and you know like hiring like very like young and hungry people like how how exactly like uh do did you spot them and what was kind of like did did that evolve over time because now you're like a billion dollar company. So what was kind of the the shift? >> Yeah. Um it certainly did evolve not from not in a positive way though. I would say our number one challenge over the past um five years, frankly, four four or five years has been um hiring. And you know, I think every time that we looked for somebody with, you know, the experience of like scaling a business or or more just simply their their time in the market, right? They've been 10 years as a CFO or 10 years as a CRO or something like that. um those people have all really failed um in terms of the experience at Marapost um which is very unfortunate but uh we've really just recently I would say in the last 9 months come back to that model of hiring the young and hungry and you know people with more of that sort of modern mindset because I think it's just it's just the energy you want to have. I mean, even some of the the founders and and executives that that I'm close with, you know, the when they're being honest, they're like, "You know what? I'm I'm 50. I I when I hear the story of Maropost or, you know, company XYZ that's growing fast, I get all excited and I'm like, I'm going to work like I was 25 or when I was 30 again." That is just not the reality, right? Like even for me, I'm 42 now and some days are are more difficult than others. Um, so we've noticed a huge shift in in kind of moving back to that. And also I do think the industry is going through a change right now where a lot of again the very successful executives out there right they're just they're wanting to retire or semi-retire or become advisers or become board members and so on. Um and so we've got this bit of a gap where you know a lot of the up andcoming VPs and and even senior directors and so on. Um those are the people that we're really looking at and those are the people that have been extremely successful at Marapost again in just the last nine months. like we have we have actually accomplished more in the last nine months than we have in the last 10 years which be want to find a a heavy cocktail right now this [laughter] >> I I've got more or less like the the same experience I mean we're like smaller company like around 160 people but yeah >> what I found that it's hard you know like to to find the intensity that you can have in the early days as your company scale% >> and and I would say that actually the the people I've hired who had like the the best track record on paper like you know going from great logo to another great logo like yeah exactly >> and yeah >> it it wasn't a fit wasn't a fit at all. [laughter] >> No to understand >> and you know like in I want to go back to uh to the story with uh I think it was Elephant and Highland Europe. So like two basically like you did I think it was a secondary deal with them >> in 2016 and then you actually like >> kick them out or bought them out. [laughter] >> C can you maybe like uh walk us through like the the whole process like uh how did that happen? Like how do you decide like to actually buy out your your your Yeah, >> I think that they were amazing people is what I what I will say. I think if it was if we had gone with like a a Summit or Insight or TA, you know, all great firms, but I think that would have led to like a lot of lawsuits and it would have been just it would have like demolish the company. And you know, I think that you we you know, we read from time to time about these stories, founders getting kicked out and so on. And that that wouldn't have happened here, but it would have just turned into a fight. And because of those differing, you know, uh um philosophies or or the lack of philosophical alignment is what I would say. And so when it got to that stage, it was just kind of like why I say like they were they were good about it. They were like let's just find a way for like to get most of our capital back and you know we'll part ways and you know everybody everybody move forward you go build Maripost and we'll go invest in other companies and everybody would win because I think when you again see a lot of those examples right it's like they they also knew what I had done not I had done but like knew what we did with the capital that it was just sitting there and you know generating generating growth on its own so it kind of worked out as well and I don't know if I should show this part but we we took the money we invested it over 3 years we made about 60% a return on that. So, not only did we just return the money that they had given us, you know, we ended up with six. So, it was like So, nobody really lost anything, I guess, was the the summary. Um, >> so you could buy you could buy them out at like 1x of what they invested or >> basically it was like that. Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. Okay. So, so how exactly do you come and uh and discuss these kind of terms because uh >> yeah, it wasn't in a positive way. I mean, we had um and it never is, right? But it it was like I said it was such a unique example. They they knew that you know okay there is an opportunity to and you know on the other side they could have bought me out right but at the same time where I was um at that stage and still would have been today is that I was like how am I going to turn over my customers right who are like most of which I've sold to you know some of these people have become become quite close friends. I'm like, if I sell the company off to a different group and they bring in a professional CEO, like the high there's a highly likely chance that this is going to go sideways, you know, and and nobody knew who they were, right? But of course, everybody within the business and our customers knew knew who I was. Um, so where I'm going with that was those were the two options. Um, but then we of course had an independent board member and he sort of facilitated this discussion. Um, so he was, you know, really just said, "Hey, do you guys want to just separate and maybe Ross, you figure out what you want to return and you guys figure out if that's, you know, good enough for you." And like I said, everybody just kind of goes on their merry way. So this was like the best situation that could have occurred for everybody like in in >> if you made like 60% you know on top of what they what you got and uh >> yeah and they had the investment or the effectively the share purchase, right? there were more partners than investors, you know, given it's a secondary. Um it [clears throat] was about $50 million Canadians or $37 million US. Like not a small amount of money. >> Uh and the one thing I will add is um you know, I think I definitely I didn't think about at the time, but I I discuss it quite frequently these days is when I was cutting that, you know, it wasn't a check, it was a wire transfer. When I was signing off on the $37 million wire transfer, I was like, I'm now doing this for life. Like there's not going to be anything else but me. That that is a unique scenario. I've not come across anybody who's had to to return 37 million. It's a lot of zeros. >> We uh we did we did a $30 million secondary in 2021 and Yeah. I don't think they would like if we >> You don't think you want to give it back? [laughter] Exactly. >> But but what was like um what was the driver for you? Because typically like right now in uh in my company like I have obviously like a board every quarter with growth expedition like a secondary firm and um and I mean you know like there are partner they they see the business growing like they trust us etc. And I I'm wondering like what's the driver for you when you've done secondary to actually like uh basically like buy them out and uh and was it like the control of the company you were like interested in or you just Yeah. No, no, it was just there again it was uh like it was this is all public information so like they had purchased 25% I still had 75%. So it wasn't about control by any means. Um in that example it it was really just again that that alignment that we didn't have. So it's like they did I didn't feel like there would be much value in in continuing to have the types of meetings that we were having. They obviously didn't feel like this was the type of business that they wanted to be invested in. And so [clears throat] um >> yeah I would say like that's kind of the core element. I mean where where we are we have been significantly more successful in a period without a board entirely right and that doesn't mean that there aren't people out there that are you know extremely valuable to the business and can provide a lot of insight and and so on. Um and now like today we have an advisory board we have uh a gentleman who built Shopify plus we have a gentleman who built um one of the largest marketplaces in North America. uh another gentleman who owns a B2B SAS um uh sales video company I guess here. Um and so they are extremely valuable in terms of you know growth in the e-commerce space in terms of growth from a marketplace and technology space in terms of a you know growth and maturity from a a um B2B SAS perspective. So we get a lot of that value now in a different format that is significantly more valuable than anything any professional investor board member can provide. I mean I think this is the same reason why you see most of most investment firms they've got you know CEO or entrepreneur and residents you know who are past founders typically you know they're bringing them in because they're like we really don't know what to tell you you know at the end of the day. um but here's somebody who ca who can help you because they built something from 0 to 100 or 0 to 500 or whatever it may be. Um so for me this is a much more beneficial strategy. The 37 million was great but this side is more valuable in the long term. >> And how exactly do you uh build like uh such boards? Do you just outreach people? Do you get intros? Like do you Yeah. >> Yeah. Actually uh one one I mean it's usually more in like at this stage right I've been at this for 17 years or so. uh uh in its entirety um you know it's usually just yeah friends networks and so on and and basically looking for people with again coming back to that philosophical alignment with that same type of alignment like I only work well with people who have like a strong obsession around customers whether they're an employee or or a founder is is irrelevant um you know and a strong se uh sense of urgency actually probably an extreme sense of urgency would be the best way so as soon as I find that profile and an individual Junior, you can usually get that just by the way they speak, how fast they talk, their movement between topics and so on. Um, it's rare, but when you find them, they're extremely helpful. >> Nice. And did you like u do you like actually pay them or give like a percentage or stock options like >> both? Okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Can you like share the range or is it uh >> uh Yeah, I mean I think I think you can like you can chat GBT. I mean it's usually in like the 50 to 100k cash per year range. you know, sometimes there's a meeting fee. Um, and then from an equity standpoint, >> you know, I think it's it's in it's in like the 0% from that from that perspective. That's typical. But, um, you know, it's it's a it's a standard range. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Super nice. And, uh, going back like on the on the storyline like in 2022, >> you did like a another like secondary share sale. This time it was. >> Yeah. So, we that was a unique scenario. Yeah, >> we didn't do a secondary share sale per se. I know it shows up on Crunchb, but um basically like everybody else in the space, valuation started to get out of control. Um you know, I was watching the business grow, revenue was amazing. Our customers were doing well. We had launched new products. You know, we were starting to cross-ell these products as well. and um you know so we went out to our network because over the years of course I mean I've probably got a thousand emails plus of people wanting to do you know get into the company in some form. Uh so we started allowing people to do that and that's where that that uh amount comes from. So there's there was about 280 individual parties both both you know firms and and individuals um that wanted to come in. we had to stop at 135 because it was just taking so much of my time. Like it was so much paperwork and signature and like responding to questions and that. So yeah, so we we went through that process, but it's it's not there's no share ownership. It's it's set up as a um effectively we repurposed a safe agreement uh um or structure um to to work as if it's almost like they're buying options. So you avoid any of the friction of having people who actually own shares and you know of course we give them quarterly updates and all the usual stuff but at the same time um you know they're not in the business until we convert into you know a public company which is our our ultimate goal. >> So basically like for them uh the liquidity event will happen once you IPO. Is that correct? >> Yeah exactly. Yeah. And do you have like a a timeline goal for the IPO? Like how how exactly? >> Yeah, it would have been now, but I would say a lot has changed over the last few years. But I I'd say we have probably a 3 to four year horizon still. Once we get to around 500 million in revenue, that's that's where we really need to be and we're about 10%. So we've got some some work to do. >> Okay. Nice. That's cool. And um yeah when it comes to like IPO and how exactly do you like think of it like uh because your company needs to be structured in a very different way. You have like so many like filing that you must do like it's it's quite complex and it becomes like a very different company. I'm curious because like from what you said to me like earlier, it's I know what you prefer, you know, is like or at least what you love the most where the early days, the early grind when you can work 18 hours. >> It's very I don't aspire to be the CEO of a public company like that's not the reason for it >> and and there's a very unique strategy um that has never been done before which is pretty typical in in Maripost form I guess. Uh but you know like anything there's there's a checklist right to going public converting your financials as you said different types of filings have a consistent you know reporting package over the last you know uh two or three or even four years in some cases um but I I don't think anybody including myself especially looks at that as as a challenge so much so that really a lot of that work like 95% of it comes down to the CFO outside of actually going out and you know selling and pitching and So on the company um but for us like I really want to I what I was saying before do something it's not about doing it different for the sake of it. I don't have an interest of going public in the US. I guess I've I watched a number of friends you know have short seller reports come out that totally decimate the share price and I've just seen them they look completely defeated. Like I want to enjoy my job right as we were discussing earlier. And it's hard enough to build a scaling business, never mind doing it when you've got, you know, people working against you in in the example I just provided. And so the plan actually at Marapost is to go public in a Canada Australia dual listing. Um, which coincidentally, sorry, has happened, but it's happened in like the mining space, which is clearly not the same as ours. Um, but it would create a very unique opportunity because Australia, if I'm not mistaken, uh, has very limited or no tech companies in in their ASX uh, 100 as an example. Um, and Toronto or sorry, Canada, uh, I think has maybe 15 or so uh, from that perspective. So, you've got, you know, it's never going to be the same as the US in terms of the investor pool. Uh, but you've got a large amount of investors in in both regions in in one case no, you know, tech opportunities. So you automatically kind of end up in this very beneficial situation where hey we're limited to what we can even buy. Well Marapost is there profitable company growing you know seems like a very exciting opportunity and then you avoid again as those things I mentioned before short seller reports endless investor lawsuits and so on um that typically come along with the US listing. So pros and cons. Yeah. And it's I think it gives like yeah you have like the pros of having something where you can have like liquidity and people can invest in it and it's quite nice but at the same time you you don't have like the same amount maybe of pressure but >> 100%. Yeah. >> How exactly would that work actually like uh cuz if you own like let's say 100% of the company minus like the safe and you go public like >> yeah that's actually a big part of the rationale as well. Um I I don't I don't personally plan to sell that much as part of that let's call it liquidity event. Okay. >> Um I don't think I would ever drop below 75% ownership in the company. You know maybe someday way way down down the line. But um the you know the goal is to maintain you know the vision and the direction and the goals of the business. And um you know I'm certain at that stage I will have you know a very strong operating partner within the business as well you know beyond even the ones I have already. Um, so yeah, I I I don't think that um is so much of a challenge is what I'm getting at. >> Okay. Okay. Interesting. And do you know like many companies where the founder actually IPO IPOed with uh you know like a lot of owners? >> No, it's never happened before. [laughter] I think the largest I we've ever I found was Atlassian where the two founders owned about 75%. >> And that is 37 and a half each. >> Um I think they were the largest. was actually there's a document somewhere you know that I've seen before I'm sure we could find that shows all of those tiers for every you know but you see I mean some of the examples I mean of course I'm not comparing Maripos to Oracle but you know Larry Ellison's net worth uh you know is heavily tied to his Oracle uh um ownership and I if I'm not mistaken it's like 45%. So, like that's that's pretty crazy. But you get there, of course, by not selling off, you know, like I have, of course, I'm sure you do as well. Like we both have friends that probably own 7% of their company, you know, because the first round they gave up 20%, you know, for a few million dollars that they need to build a business and then the next round was another 20 and you know, all of a sudden they're they're in this like sub 10% category. And for for me, I I I find that going back to our conversation earlier around um you know, raising capital being a part of that sort of uh uh strategy, you know, I just don't see the point of it, I guess, is what I'm getting at. >> Yeah. And I think like to build up on what you say like u with some of our common friends who, you know, like raised up to series D, it's not so much like owning let's say like seven or 8%. It's also that the preference stack is pretty [ __ ] for them. And then you have like layers of for each series, you know, like a new preference coming on top of the other. So, >> for sure. >> Yeah. >> We, you know, where this comes up a lot. So, every like almost every day or every couple days, um, we're having conversations either with our recruitment team or with, you know, with people we're hiring into the business. And that conversation come sorry the the preference bit comes up in every discussion >> because you know in in a lot of the recruiters they even say that like we don't think you understand like they're saying this to me how strong the opportunity is here because it let's say it's Maripos versus company XYZ and company XYZ has raised 400 million they're like that 400 million has to be paid back first before there's any payout and that's on the basis that you even sell for 400 million or more 300 whatever the number is doesn't matter whereas at Maripos like this actually is your direct equity once you've vested and once you purchase you you will receive dollar for dollar on on an exit. So it's a huge value ad actually for your employees for your staff to to maintain that >> and yourself of course as well. >> Yeah. >> And how exactly did you split kind of the the the stock options that you give like to your to your own team? >> Yeah. So everybody in the company has options and actually it's kind of a funny question because you know for a long time it was just kind of like onetoone you know maybe not at the a level of say just like a sales rep or a support reper more of the the frontline staff in the company. Um but now we just have a tiered structure so there's maybe like 15 tiers and wherever people fall in you know that's the level that they get they get in terms of the the option. And so it keeps it very consistent across the team. And of course as people are promoted they receive uh you know additional uh uh grants and so on as well. But the the structure of having those tiers really helps in my opinion. >> Yeah. I'm I'm really curious because uh it's it's not something we've done like in a super like uh we have some tiers but it's not very I would say well like laid >> enough. Yeah. >> Yeah. Ours has like every title within the company. So if they're like at sea level obviously senior VP VP you know director all the way down to the bottom and every >> role that we have like has coverage. So it's not like somebody's guessing between the two. And I mean what's great about it is like if you've got two senior directors, you know, and they have a a beer one night or have a drink together and they start talking about what options they have, one doesn't find out that they've got half of what the other person >> and so it just keeps you consistent. Yeah. >> No, that's a that's a good way of doing things. And uh no matter like the the department basically like a director from one department and another one they would have like the same. Okay. Okay. Interesting. I agree. >> No, that's cool. Um and I think like I remember I think you wrote like an article. I think the title was this is why you your business should avoid taking investor money. That sounds like a Leo Brand. [laughter] >> So, so if you had to give like like why why do you think like a business should take VC money and why do you think a business should >> I don't think they should ever I'm pretty >> okay. Okay. Okay. Not not ever like not never ever but I I just think that going back to that example we were discussing earlier you know in in like I'm trying to think of the fe there's of course there's always edge cases but like if I own 10 under 10% of marapost I would never come to work it just wouldn't make any sense like the amount of suffering and pain that we have to go through right I'm probably not getting a lot of sympathy or we probably wouldn't get a lot of sympathy but you know in the general market but from a founder perspective like we know how how much work it takes and I just don't know that um you know there'd be much motivation or drive if that was the case and and so um there's another gentleman actually I don't know if you know him Adam Robinson he owns um >> yeah retention.com and RB2V yeah yeah yeah >> yeah so my my sort of right-hand woman circa um eight or nine years ago at Maripos she actually is is one of the co-founders there along with Adam as well um and he speaks a lot to just this this overall uh uh challenge that we're we're getting into as well. So whether it's, you know, whether it's the the ownership stake that you end up in with each dilution that goes, you know, through through that process, whether it's the, you know, kind of the typical challenges that, you know, uh, investors bring to the table, right? Like, you know, when I was younger, you know, circa 2016, you know, they would have these like presentations. Oh, if we hire these people and we build this process and we, you know, spend $5 million, then like, you know, all this magic will happen. Well, of course, we spent the 5 million and then the magic didn't happen. And so, I think that's where like it becomes a sort of cascading effect. Then you as the founder, you know, who ultimately just wants the business to succeed ends up in a position where you're just like one doing investor management and two relying on the rest of your team to really make things happen. And at the end of the day, I mean, what's that the say or the article that came out around this founder mode? Like ultimately, call it whatever you want, but like you're the founder of the business. It's like if you can't sell your product, if you can't market your product, if you can't, you know, manage ultimately like the the um product goals of of of the business, you know, it's going to be harder to succeed in all those environments. You know, of course, you can always throw enough money at it. If there's a good enough idea or a good enough product market fit, then it's likely going to work out. But, um, I mean, I'm sure you know, Attentive and you know, Clavio, like they're they're, you know, different success stories, I would say, but they've raised a billion dollars. A billion. >> That's insane. Like if somebody gave me a billion dollars, like I don't even know what would happen. I would probably take 50 million from Maropost and spend 950 on like I don't know curing cancer for the low. [laughter] But the point I'm getting at is like that that's that environment, right? Where where of course you were going to be successful again if the product market fit was strong if somebody gave you a billion dollars. Um, and so I just don't think that that is a scalable model because of course again it only works in like one out of every thousand or frankly one out of every 10,000 probably is more likely. >> Yeah. No, I I agree. And uh are you investing in startups from time to time or not at all? As an >> we ventures as well. Um actually we were an investor in Grock if you're familiar with them that was just acquired by Nvidia for 20 billion. >> I invested in there too. >> Oh you did? Good. Good. >> Yeah. >> I was happy with that news. Yeah, for sure. Same. Same. So that, you know, there there's I've definitely cut scaled that back because I just don't think Marapost is big enough for me to be spending any of my my excess time uh assisting other businesses. But um you know, I'm sure that'll come back in the future. And I I think it relates as well to sort of the long-term planning of Marapost where of course you know the core business is always the first and foremost, but then we have Marapost Ventures and then we have Marapost Cares which is our nonprofit. So, you know, it sets up that like, you know, in 10 years from now, maybe I'll spend a lot more of my time in the other two areas than I do, you know, on the day-to-day of Marost itself. >> Yeah, that's really cool. And, um, talking about like growth and scale, like um, some of the thing we see a lot, you know, like and maybe a bit less on s businesses, but you've you've done a lot of like acquisition and buildup. >> Yeah, we have. Yeah. >> And more than ever. Yeah, that's for sure. >> Yeah, exactly. So, so can you like walk us through like the the strategy and how you approached it? >> For sure. So, so for us, um, this is kind of a longer story, but the, uh, back in 2015, um, it became very obvious, you know, as we were, we were talking before, right, going from 300,000 to 27 million in revenue, but it became very obvious at that point that like this this 30 million range was sort of like the limit that, you know, Ross himself as like one relatively one individual could could build and grow the company. Um, but that one of the other variables was that we had to become a multi-product solution. And so um you know like at the time we would compete with I mean everybody but Salesforce marketing cloud or all the marketing clouds exact target responses uh there was bronto back then list track and so on. Um but you know we we would take a customer from them they would take one from us but it really slowed the growth and so uh the idea became very quickly like to become an an e-commerce marketing automation and help desk solution. So you know from a circular customer uh centric centric approach uh you know somebody would come in they'd buy marketing cloud we would sell them at ecom and then of course they would need uh help desk solution as well and so that would really round out a strong value set from a customer standpoint. Um, long story short, and leaving out sort of like that investor period where not so much happened or basically nothing happened from a a product growth and product development standpoint, um, we acquired our first company which was Neato called, uh, uh, sorry, called Neato out of Australia and they were an e-commerce and and retail solution. They also do B2B. It's still a very valuable platform. We have over 2,000 customers, 2,400 customers, I think, still utilizing that that system. um more and more of them are moving over to the Maripost uh uh platform, but that's another component to it. Um but really like we just we just lacked the experience in the e-com and retail space. We were struggling with multicurrency, multi storere, basically anything with the word multi in it at the time um on that front and and so acquiring that business really really helped us move the ball forward. It was an extremely difficult acquisition from a culture perspective. I would not want to relive that year. I'll tell you that much. Um, we actually acquired another business in Australia to stabilize that business. Um, the second one was Retail Express that um, was was a retail solution or point of sales solution as well. Uh, an amazing founder there. Um, I really really enjoy enjoyed working with him. He's he's since uh, moved on, but we're very very close. So that that's definitely a success story there. Um, and then we actually acquired a company out of Sweden, so where I coincidentally uh live part of the time that was a partner of Neato that provided search and merchandising uh functionality um or still does, sorry, I should say, called Findify. Um, and so those were sort of like the main acquisitions that we made. And part of our strategy moving forward is still to make acquisitions. There's, you know, a number of benefits from a customer acquisition standpoint, from a a tax benefit standpoint is a big one as well. Um, but for the last couple years, you know, we've definitely paused while we ensure that, you know, the organic growth of the business really helps us move forward. >> And and can you walk us through maybe like your thought process towards like an acquisition? Like are you looking for uh you know like new revenue like less churn like how exactly do you think of it? So in in in those in the first two first example was that experience. That's what we were looking for. Of course the revenue and all that. You need that, right? We're not going to buy a company just for for the the technology or just for the you know the the team per se, right? There's got to be a a revenue addition and value like we were able to take the revenue of Neato and and make that profitable much like Marapost. So it's really just stacking you know that that those same benefits or values that Marapost has on on top of those businesses. Typically, we're we're looking for um there to be a a close connection again to what the Maripos vision is. So, we wouldn't go out and and purchase as an example. Actually, we do inventory. So, maybe we would um I guess we're looking for something in our within our sphere of technology. So, we're not looking for something that like we're not going to do. So, as an example, we may buy like a a CDP type company because Maripos has a CDP or customer data, you know, element to it. And so it's very easy for us to you know literally transpose that data over talk to the customers and be like what are like 90% of the reports or that you really really need uh or analytics or or metrics or so on and then make sure that the marapost side of things covers that. So we're looking for that that coverage there in particular. Typically the other side is is as you were saying is is the revenue and like the customer aspect. We want to look at the customer base and understand okay once that we've got them using our version of you know whatever it is that we acquired um what is the likelihood that you know 80% of these customers are going to buy three more of Marapost products under the Marapost single technology stack that that we ourselves offer. Um, and I think that's the other thing is like we're not looking to buy the tech. Like that never really works. Like it works if you're Salesforce and you can spend 2 billion buying exact target and throw 2,000 engineers and be like guys like create a seamless or a reasonably seamless experience around it. But it doesn't really work otherwise. And I think that's why you don't see typically see companies under 100 million making acquisitions. It's just it doesn't work very well. And again for us like we nothing that we've acquired well actually should not nothing I shouldn't say that findify we did um did we bring the technology into into our own into the marapost platform so neato over time you know someday won't be uh you know won't be next week or certainly won't even be next year um but people will continue to log into Marapost use neato for certain things and then over time we're just slicing off that that technology moving it over moving it over moving it over >> okay so so if I understand correctly H every time you can you make an acquisition you're more in the buy or build type of mentality like you want something that has like adjacencies that way potentially you can have like more >> not even adjacencies it has to be something that's in our own vision so remember I was saying earlier that we were building e-commerce uh marketing automation and and help desk that was again 10 years ago um you know then it became marketing automation help desk and ecom and then retail so point of sale um and then we added search and merchandising as I mentioned with the which is really an offshoot feature of the e-commerce side of things CDP as a product became natural for us because we had to build that all the customer data is is in Maripost in the first place um and then there's I would say the the uh seventh element is basically like the AI functionality that we actually designed also almost 10 years ago um so where I'm going with that is like if it doesn't fit within that sphere right if it's like if it's a nether thing then no we don't want to we don't really want to get into that and again there's there's those subcategories much like I mentioned search and merchandising and I touched on inventory just as an example or say order management or shipping plugins like some of that stuff could can make sense because we are already doing exactly that >> and um how exactly do you get like uh the targets like how do you find them do you have like bankers working for you or you just >> yeah we did them all by yourself which is also funny >> yeah we didn't have any representation of course like we we are you know receiving inbounds right? Where like naturally uh um excuse me bankers are looking for companies who have acquired businesses in the first place which is not that big of a market uh to look at. So we have a lot coming our way and of course we keep relationships going and we have a lot of partners. I mean the same no different than say a Shopify. We have hundred well yeah they have tens of thousands I think if I'm not mistaken but we have hundreds of tech partners and a lot of times you know we talk to those partners we're like you're kind of doing the same thing that we're doing here maybe again it's in inventory or loyalty or something like that and so there's an opportunity there for us to have that type of conversation if you know if they've been again running their business for 10 years and they're like you know what like this would fit much much better under the Maripost uh um you know banner than it is me continuing to build out this sort of single function technology G >> I remember like um when before I made actually my first uh acquisition and acquired like a business. I think we had like that chat and you know it inspired me kind of to to try to replicate and I remember like one of the advice you gave you know it was something in the lines of get ready you know like for things to get pretty ugly you know like when you do an acquisition and get ready for you know the the founders uh you know like that of the company you acquire to to sometime like do crazy things. >> Yeah. Do you c can you like maybe explain how you handled uh you know like the the the NATO situation? >> That was really hard because it was during COVID number one. It was really difficult as well uh because it was in Australia which is just far away from pretty much everything. Um you know so like just time zone wise is is challenging. when when I think when I originally had more exposure to Australia from a business perspective, I thought that and this could be related to like north and south, right? I think if you're working with people in in Sydney and Melbourne, you know, that's probably more like a Toronto or Paris in the context of, you know, the more rural aspects. Maybe not rural is the wrong question, but um I think that from a culture perspective, it was just it was just a big difference. Neato was a very young company like their average age of their employees was I think like 25 or something like that whereas Maripost was more like you know 35 or or even 40 for that matter. Um so I think those those areas create a pretty significant challenge. The other the other thing as well is that um you know with Canada, Australia, the UK, right? You think of the sort of British Commonwealth. I I always had this assumption and I was probably somewhat incorrect in that regard. Um you know that we were very similar. Um and it's we're actually not like I think Canada is so close to the US that you know from a business perspective we still have this very you know capitalist or or business ccentric approach you know from a from a growth standpoint or the contribution we make. And it's not that people worked really really hard but they still they were much more similar actually to Swedes in my opinion or in my experience. Um, so that's been kind of the core element from that standpoint. Um, that made it difficult. And so in in terms of just handling it, it was it was really hard. The actually and the founder, he really he worked really hard as well. He really tried to bring the the team along and really tried to focus on the the um, you know, the pros of of what it was, but ultimately they had built just a totally different culture than the one that we we had and the one that we wanted to maintain. And I think if I could say one thing, it's that I would have been or I would would be and will be much more strict on the alignment with the business. So it's like if you're not aligned the with the business, you know, feel free to to exit the business or early on. um I'd have much a much stricter stronger approach to where we would position people from an acquisition within you know within the Maripost business as in you know it I it doesn't matter who I talk to whenever they've made an acquisition if they put anybody from the acquisition on their executive team it typically goes sideways you know I think that >> the founders right it's like they're either going into some type of product or salesreated aspect right either they're still really good at selling their product or they're still really good at designing and so those are the best areas Um, so those were some of like the strong learning lessons like don't sacrifice your own culture or don't sacrifice your own value. Not values maybe is a wrong way of putting it, but principles maybe is a good a good term to use there. Um, you know, for the benefit of this team because they're not your team, you bought them. And that's a totally different >> uh um piece. And you know, if it reminds me of one last thing that I continually reminded myself with after the fact, like when you make an acquisition, typically, right, it's a smaller company, right? So, so I think Nidato was like 10 million in revenue and Maripost was like 40 million in revenue, you know. So, we're asking people with a different level of experience from a size and a scale and expectation standpoint, you know, to to mature in like 3 months, right, which took us 10 years to get to in the first place. So, I think that's a really important factor for for people to consider. And I don't think they do. And again, that's why I think most acquisitions are seen as failures or they blow up or the founders leave pretty quickly and so on. >> And uh how did you structure the deal? Like was it all cash or was it like also with an earnout based on milestone like >> Yeah, Neato was a really unique one because the company was mostly owned by a company called Telra uh which is the largest te telco uh um in in Australia. And so it was which like when you if you knew them well I mean I don't know who the main uh um telco is in in in uh France as an example but um you know it' be like AT&T in the US you know buying a small SAS company like that has nothing to do with their business but what what Telster was trying to do was to build up this network of of SAS companies that would somehow benefit their customers. Again I don't really understand it. Anyway, long story short they figured out that that wasn't going to work obviously. uh and then they started uh you know kind of exiting these businesses. So um it was mostly cash uh because you know there there was no opportunity outside of the founders to join the cap table or anything like that. We weren't we weren't going to bring Telster into Marapost and not that I think they would have wanted that. Um and then from from um uh from an earnout perspective we did have one but it wasn't it was small and it wasn't really relevant because like we knew what we were buying and we were just like we kind of like we'll take it as is if that makes sense. Yeah. >> And what was your plan when it comes to the to the whole team? Because like if if I'm putting myself in your shoes, you have like a extremely highly profitable business. You're making like 50 to 70% aida margin which is like insane. So you have cash to acquire businesses. Um but then you know like you look at the business metrics and obviously they're not as profitable as you are or like it's not it's not likely. So essentially you're like okay I want to maybe change my uh cost structure. So potentially like the first step to change a cost structure is to let go some people especially because when you merge some functions are not helpful anymore. But how exactly do you see it from a people perspective and maybe you can walk us through you know like how big was your team when you acquired them and how it ended basically? Yeah, I think they I mean the team a lot of the team stayed in place for for quite like of course there's the administrative roles right HR finance you know some of those areas that you know are relatively or typically immediately taken over merged into the the the main organization. Um but I think where where I would go with that is that was that was those were part of the mistakes that we made. We we allowed you know certain people to stay too long. we allowed certain systems to, you know, to run in unison for too long. Um, those things we should have moved moved much much quicker on, but I I think they were around a hundred people when we acquired them and then within maybe a year it was still 80, you know, it was maybe a little bit more than 100 actually now that I think about it. Um, you know, so it was probably like, you know, 20 or 30 people that, you know, either self- selected out because it wasn't for them or or um, you know, or we exited because it was there was a redundancy that was occurring there. Um again uh going back to what I would have done differently is I would have had a much much stronger plan or strategy to manage that on like arguably like a week over week or and or definitely a month over month basis meaning like this is when you know this group of people are going to be exited or this is when we're going to move off of this technology or this is when this is going to merge. We were definitely operating more in like the wild west method of of acquisitions when we did the first one. Like like I said, it was me and my or like we had a a junior director of finance. Me and him did the acquisition together. He handled the in the you know the the integration or the financials aspect of it all. Um that is not normal. I mean it's >> it's actually the opposite of normal I think. Uh but again we learned a lot going through it and you know for better or for worse like I would do that acquisition again and I think that's >> because you learned a lot. Yeah. And and for for retail Yeah. Sorry. No, I was just going to say not just for the learning though like it was also because it was the right acquisition for us to make. >> Yeah, financially it made sense. >> Yeah, financially. >> And for retail express, did you have like a proper plan in place like with >> Still no plan? >> No, still no plan. No plan because that one, like I said, that year uh after NATO was extremely difficult and we were just like in arguably, you know, desperately trying to just stabilize the first bit the NATO business, you know, with some mature leadership at least in place. Um yeah, so that was more of the goal there. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> On our side, we the first company we acquired, I think it was a lot smaller. So around like one or two million in in revenue. So it was like much smaller team but I remembered like what you said and I was uh I I tried to be like careful with everything. >> Yeah. >> But it's Yeah. >> Go ahead. Sorry. >> No, no, no. I was saying like it's I think it's it's always tricky as you mentioned because you mentioned like processes like the tech that you're using what tech stack everything like it's a doing integration you know like if if it's not on the same tech stack and you want something that's working well it doesn't work cuz you mentioned like uh Salesforce making acquisition and you know being able to have 2,000 engineers even with that to be honest like uh we see it like there are very little acquisition in the SAS world that actually work really really well like it's very tricky >> for sure. Yeah. Absolutely. [clears throat] >> Absolutely. And you know when you were talking about the 1 to 2 million so find we acquired out of um Sweden was about 2 million in in revenue and I would I would never do a small acquisition like that that again. It it's just not worth the headache cuz to be honest with you it's the same amount of work. 20 million in revenue or 2 million or 50 million even of revenue. It's it's the same amount of work the same amount of stress. you're still dealing with like teams and founders and cultural issues and so on. So, it's like if you're going to do it, make it count. >> Yeah. I feel I feel like this is I've got the same uh the same thing with the different real estate investment I made when you have to renovate like a tiny whatever apartment and have people to like rent it out. It's the exact same [ __ ] as if you have 500 or Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I had a bunch of uh residential real estate units in in Toronto and I ended up selling them all because I was like this is so much work. It's like why don't you just buy one massive building instead of like five small ones? M >> yeah I feel this is like the the biggest like issue for SAS foundonder because you know like because we work so much on the computer and we make like a lot of money with like high margins eventually when we we want something that's like tangible you know and real estate is like pretty nice >> but eventually you get into real estate and you look at the margin you look at the time and you're like I mean I like it but you know at the same time it feels like a yeah the the toxic relationship >> to a different job than the job you pretty hand. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. And um yeah, when when it comes to like uh the the structure, just going back a little bit on this because I I know you had like obviously like a super high eida margin, but were you paying out of like uh your your own like pocket in a sense with the company's money or did you take like leverage and uh and get some depth? Uh >> yeah, we did a little bit of debt for the first acquisitions for the retail express and and the needle one. The other one was obviously much smaller. Um like yeah, we took about 30 million in debt, but I'm I'm very anti- debt. Like obviously there's >> scenarios where it's beneficial, but you know, from a business perspective, um you know, meaning like on the Maripos side. Um I'm not I'm always, you know, I'm not keen on that because something can happen, right? The market changes, who knows, maybe you have too much churn in one, you know, one year. Uh all of a sudden you have a real problem on your hands. So I we try to, you know, limit our debt as much as humanly possible. Frankly, you know, it's more about managing that profitability that we've been discussing uh, you know, throughout or even previously uh to the benefit of those debt loads. So, use the free cash flow we have, you know, to be invested elsewhere to then generate another return, then use that return to pay off the interest that um, you know, we have on the debt if that makes sense. >> Yeah, of course. And, uh, to because you mentioned very quickly like uh, you know, when things go bad and your turn might increase, etc., etc., like what's what's like uh the one or two metrics that you really like obsess over for for your business? >> Revenue and profit. >> Okay. >> I mean at the end of the day those are the two top and bottom like and when I say profit too I'm not talking about IBIDA like I usually I look at the for tax-free cash flow in particular. um typically because because of the acquisition you know sort of mindset that we want to have um you know how we can acquire a business and have that decrease you know via the the expensible amounts of the acquisition um is extremely beneficial. Uh but yeah at the end of the day it's like everything else in between to me is just like it's noise. It's like did our revenue grow? Yes. Did our profitability grow? Yes. Did it not? Why? You know and let's just look at it from those kind of specifics. But I mean of course we have like hundreds of metrics that we look at and I we are at the same time or or I am definitely trying to simplify that you know so it becomes more like I I don't know if you've used bare metrics before as an example or there's like profit well I think there's a whole bunch of them uh nowadays >> one of the regrets that I have is I didn't put those types of platforms or groups of metrics in place uh sooner. I think that if you're really strong on the sales side of things, which Marapost has been historically, um, you know, this kind of like self-s serve element and how, you know, the subscription management side of things works with with regards to again those platforms really helps you understand the nuances of any change, right? We lost this customer, we added this one, this one upgraded, this one downgraded. You start to become, I think, a bit obsessed with that. And and I think that's what's neat frankly. >> Yeah. And it's great. I mean, I personally use like profit well and I think like Patrick did did an awesome job and receiving, you know, like this email where it says like, "Hey, you're like 5% ahead of the goal, 6% ahead." >> Exactly. >> Every day, you know, where you're at. It's uh I think Yeah. >> Yeah. Go ahead. Sorry. I just I'm excited. >> Yeah. I think they really created something that uh you know that you want to check out. Like I check profit well like even though I'm not involved in the dayto-day anymore, like I I still check profit well like weekly or daily like Yeah. Yeah. >> And but your business is mostly um self-service correct? >> Yeah, it's uh Yeah, it's mostly self-service. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, that's where we for us, we were shifting from 100% direct sale to just now, like literally just now January 2026 after again many years um opening up the self-service side. To me, that's like that's the most exciting because like there's no question that we can sell our platform or that our platform is amazing from a again from a direct sale perspective. I want people who can just come in like you said add add a plan you know go go from free trial to cancel like without ever having to speak to somebody as a sec second element of course to the business as well. Yeah, I think for me that was like uh probably because by by trade I'm like a chemical engineer and then you know I I studied like marketing and ended up like yeah doing a SAS. Yeah. But >> but the the the first time like cuz prior to the SAS I had like an agency and you know it was similar like if I wanted to get money from someone you know I would need one two three four meetings do the work etc. But the first time we received like that notification from Stripe about like a customer that I had never heard of. I didn't know who [clears throat] they were like where they were coming from. It's it's just like magical. You're like, "Okay, like this is this is a new world." >> Exactly. That's I'm really excited for that for us. Yeah. >> Yeah. I'm excited for you, too, cuz it's uh Yeah, it's awesome. And uh what what are like the the the few projects you're excited about in the in the coming years? >> Uh to be honest with you, the I mean we're not going so far out to past the next 6 months. I think that's been a bit of a >> challenge as I said, you know, in our entire conversation that we've had over the last 10 years at at Marapost in terms of getting products out to market. I mean, in the last 6 months, we launched our new commerce solution. We launched our help desk solution. We we um are launching self-service as we mentioned this month. We we launched our AI solution. So there's a pretty significant amount uh that's happening you know in real time. Um and you know we we've got a new head of product and he's just doing an amazing job at you know continuing that momentum. And so I'm going with this is I think that I think that a big part I genuinely believe a big part of that momentum is because you've shortened the time frame. I think that you could of course we should have a you know as founders we should have a 10-year you know kind of vision for the business in terms of those core elements but from a delivery perspective you know it has to be that short amount of time because otherwise people just start thinking in years and that something could take years and you're like that's not going to take years that should take like two weeks you know what I mean let's get back to >> and and that's where when we started of course I mean I think it's very similar everywhere it's like we were we were updating the code every day you know and then all every day turns into once a week and then it turns Is it every two weeks? And then all of a sudden you're like, you know, how often are we actually excited about the business and what we're putting out there when it's so uh um extended in terms of the time frame? >> 100% agree that uh creating urgency as you scale. >> Yeah. >> Is is something that is uh quite hard and I think was it like a parkinson's law or something like a task take as a much uh as much time as you actually like allocate a certain amount of time or whatever. But it's yeah pretty much like >> you know it's like um essentially like if you tell someone that they have like one day >> to to do something they would do it in one day but if you say if you tell them that they have like a week >> whatever they decide yeah exactly like they can also spend that amount of time. So it's always like >> for sure it's Yeah. Exactly. >> If you have low expectations you're going to get low results. If you have high expectations you still you may not get the expectations you want. they're still going to be a heck of a lot higher than than they were that I would say that that's kind of a funny point because a significant amount of our challenges as well over more or so maybe the last 5 years have related to that that mindset and and distilling that mindset through the rest of the company, right? And it's like it comes down, you know, at the start of the conversation, we were talking about, you know, kind of the young and hungry, you know, executives or upand cominging executives that you want to have running your business, you know, versus say the people who are sort of, you know, half retired. Um, that that's a really core element of it, right? They they just they are worn down in their life, so they have low expectations of their own team versus the guy coming in, he's 30 years old, you know, he's like, I have 10 things I want to accomplish today. like I work on a daily uh you know kind of to what you were just saying like I work per day. I wake up and I'm like what do I want to achieve today? Not this week, not this month, not this definitely not this quarter. Um and I think that again as an industry we've gotten into that longer time cycle or time frame. >> Yeah, definitely. And uh I know we're almost running out of time, so that'll be the the last question. Uh what's what's like one advice uh you wish you had received uh when when you basically like started Maro Post? >> Yeah, spend a lot more time on recruiting. >> Okay. >> Spend a lot more time. Yeah. I mean not not only a lot more time on recruiting, a lot more time understanding the type of person that that you need to work here and and really uh leveraging, you know, outside parties who do have that experience. It's like the way I interview people now or the way I have, you know, conversations with with executives that were hiring as an example is completely different than it was 3 years ago. And, you know, I and I would take that back 10 years ago, frankly. I think that, you know, I think we I can only speak for myself, but you know, I rely a lot on what people say, right? And and you know, if they're like, I you know, this is what I built here. But what you know, we unfortunately just do live in the world where, you know, people aren't always completely honest. They're definitely not as honest as we would expect in the interview process. So, I'm sure you've interviewed people and you know they're like you're you're thinking this person is going to make all my dreams come true and then within the first like month you're like uhoh maybe I wasn't >> there is no messiah. >> Yeah, exactly. Well, no, but it usually comes down to what the your expectations were going back to that same comment. So I think that that recruitment aspect is something that I wish I had spent a lot more time meaning maturing from that standpoint as well and also leveraging outside uh resources specifically for that. >> Awesome. Where can people uh follow you? >> Yeah, I mean uh LinkedIn, Instagram. Yeah. >> Awesome. We'll put the the link in the comments. >> You want to see me just floating around in the sea or you want to hear what I have to say about, you know, the next stages of e-commerce and retail. >> Yeah. >> Awesome. Uh thanks a lot for uh your time and uh and all the the knowledge you shared. >> Same to you. Really appreciate it. Awesome day. >> You too. [music] >> [music]
