# Jeremy Miner

- Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IMuUU0PiW6M

## Transcript

Every prospect that does not buy comes down to the fear of change. [Music] Pretend you and I are in the elevator and I say, "What do you do?" Give me your 30 second elevator pitch. I take people from kind of being a slave to bills and things that they rent all the time and turn it into ownership so you can live a better life. >> What do you sell? >> 30 second pitch. Hold it. >> I increase people's net worth tremendously over 30 years. >> What do you sell? >> Solar. >> 30 second village. I help people find a solution to lower their overall cost on energy and help them find ownership solutions and increase their equity on their homes. >> Somebody that's not in solar raise your hand. >> What do you sell? >> Like product service roofing. >> Roofy. >> Okay. I want you four to come up here on stage with me real quick. >> So if I if I asked a competitor of yours the same exact question. I said, "Hey, you know what? you do give me your best elevator pitch for your industry. What do you think they might say? >> Protect all your assets and save you a lot of money. >> Okay. What about you? What are your competitors? I ask the same question. What do you think they might say? >> You're paying too much for your electricity and we can do it for way cheaper. >> What about you? What would they say? >> Utility rates over the long term so it doesn't increase with inflation. >> And you what would they say? um you know help people lower their costs of their overall expenses. >> Okay. So what I think I heard all of you just say to yourself is that in your prospect's mind you all kind of sound the >> the same now? Could that be a problem for you? So what's going to make you stand out? >> How do you stand out from everybody else saying the same thing? >> What's going to make you actually different? Now, if you really thought I want you to put yourself in your prospect's shoes, like don't be the salesperson right now. Go in your prospect's shoes that you talk to every day. In reality, do they know all the differences between what you do and your competitors do? Yes or no? >> No. So, in their mind, would you say that you kind of all sound the same to you? Okay. So, what's going to separate you from everybody else? This is what I want you to write down. I'm going to put it here on this V board. I want you to write down POV. So write down POV. This is really important for you right now. Okay. So what is the POV? Now POV stands for the perception of the value. You know, I hear a lot of sales people say, "Well, I got to show them more valuable." The problem is is that all your competitors are showing them the same value. Would I be right? Yes or no? >> Yes. They're showing them the same value. They say the same things. So, it's how the prospect perceives that value that separates you from closing that sale or not. How do they perceive the value? You ever seen like products or services that are really, really good, but hardly anybody's buying them? Raise your hand if that's you. If you've ever seen that. Okay. On the flip, only half of you. Am I in the right room? >> Okay. Okay. And on the flip side, have you guys seen products that are like really, really bad, but they sell like crazy? Raise your hand. Well, what's the difference? that company or those salespeople know how to frame that offer. They know how to the perception of the value far more than other companies. The perceived value is what matters. And that's what we're going to focus on today. So, what do I mean by framing your offer, framing your service? Okay. So, I want you to get the family photo in your mind. Picture your own family photo. You got your siblings, your parents, maybe you got your kids, the one on your desk, your mant. You guys have the family picture in your mind. Okay. Imagine two of those pictures from your family. They're exactly the same picture. Now you have to go out and buy what? Two frames. Two different frames. Yeah. So let's say one frame is like gold, immaculate, like looks amazing. Then the other frame for the photo, you go to the flea market. It's got cobwebs on it. It's dirty. It's like looks beat up. same exact picture. Which one are you getting? The one that's framed better. Are you picking up what I'm starting to put down here? So, it's all how you frame what you're doing that's going to determine if they buy or if they do not buy. You get me? So, the biggest question that companies and salespeople from all industries ask me, ask my team is how are you guys able to train every industry on the planet? According to Forbes magazine, there's 163 different verticals. Now, in those verticals, there are subcategories of those. Who sells like home improvement? For example, home. Okay, home improvement home service. That's like our fifth biggest industry we train. Now, in that, there's doors, there's windows, there's cabinets, there's garages, there's HVAC, there's plumbing, all these different industries. And so, the question is, how do you able how are you able to duplicate in every single industry to get those type of results? And to be clear, companies and salespeople do not come to us because they believe that I know their product, their service, their industry better than them. They come to me because they know I know how to sell that or train that and how to frame their product, their service, their industry much better than them. And that's what we're going to focus on today. Now, I'm going to ask you this question. How many of you are ready to actually take your sales your sales ability to a level that most people never get to? Raise your hand if that's you. >> All right, that's what I make sure I'm in the right room. And once I show you how and what you need to do, how many of you are actually going to act and actually do what I tell you to do to get there? Raise your hand if that's you. Okay, I'm going to ask you this very, very important question. And depending on how you answer this will depend on how your sales career will go. Whether you own the business and you want to scale more, whether you sell, is selling something you do to people or is selling something you do for people. Is selling something you do to people or is selling something you do for people? Let me know. >> For people. >> For people. Because if we have a belief system that we are doing it to them, like it's something bad, like we're manipulating them, like it's a bad thing, how confident are you going to be to help them overcome a concern or objection and actually close that deal? Not very confident. Right? So, anytime you try to close, you're going to have what? Anxiety. And you're going to feel nervous. Right? Now, why do we have that? Why does that actually happen to us? Okay? Why is that important for you guys to actually understand? I want you to think about this from this point of view. How many of you have ever talked to a salesperson and you had some massive problems? You knew you should buy what they were offering. Like you knew it. You knew that if you bought it, it was going to help you. It's going to solve your problems, get whatever you want in your life. You knew all that, yet you still didn't do it. Raise your hand if that's you. Raise your hand if that's you. That should be everybody. And how many of you I'll give you an example. How many of you have been to an event like this? Maybe you got some great advice. Maybe you could have got a training program or something to invest in that you knew if you did it, you would get all these crazy results and you would get where you want yet you still didn't do it. Raise your hand if that's you. Now, for a lot of people, that's called a what? That's called a pattern. So, if you have patterns that, let's say, prevent you from buying products and services that you know you need to get where you want to go, would that also imply that your prospects have the same patterns and that's why they're not buying from you? Yes or no? >> Would that would that imply that? Okay. Now, why does that happen? You see, the brain often comes up with excuses on why we do something or not do something even we know we should do it. And why does that happen? Because the brain, you know, whenever God put the first humans here on the earth millions of years ago, whenever that was, that's debatable. The brain was never designed for us to thrive. The brain was actually designed for us to survive, to be safe. Is everybody getting this? Okay. That's how we're wired. So, anytime there's something new or something unknown or there's change, the brain plays tricks on us. The brain tries to convince us not to do something even though we know what to do. Now, congratulations, you're alive, right? But why do we not buy something? Why do we not do something? Why does our prospects not do that? It's because it's something that's unknown, something unfamiliar, and they have to give you money before they see what's on the other side of what? Change. Every prospect that does not buy comes down to the core of every human being has a fear of change. So every objection you get, it's too expensive. We don't need it. I need to talk to my spouse. I need to think it over. We need to talk with the board for six months. We'll push it down the road. Now's not the right time. I need to do more research. I'm not interested. We already have it. Every objection you get, every reason the prospect does not buy comes down to the root cause, the h the fear of change. Now, whose job is it to help them overcome that fear of change so they get what they want? Whose job is that? Let me know. Is that our job? >> Okay, I'm making sure I'm with the right people here. Okay, good. So, what causes a prospect to close down emotionally? Do you know? >> A lack of trust. But what causes a lack of trust? >> Lack of rapport. >> What causes a lack of rapport? >> What does rapport mean? >> Hey, how you doing today? I'm doing good. What's this all about? Anytime a prospect closes down or gives you an objection, did they plan that out before you got there? Did they like, you know, before that solar rep knocks on my door in about 45 minutes, I think I'm going to go into fight orflight mode about 30 seconds in and say, we're good. We're not interested. Or I think, you know, when that salesperson comes out to sell me windows, I think like I'm going to like put my arms in. I'm just going to give them like one-word answers. I'm going to seem like really closed off and at the end I'm going to say, I need about four other bids. Come back later. Did they plan that out? >> Or was it something you said >> or something you asked or how you asked your tone that triggered their guard up that triggered that reaction? Oh, okay. We're reverse engineering now. Once we start to understand this, what does that give us an advantage on? Now, we know how to prevent that from happening, don't we? Is that what you want to learn? >> Yes. >> Okay. That's why I came here. So, I'm going to show you a few things. This is kind of fun. Probably going to have to kick me off stage here. Going to go over time. I always do. Okay. So, let's go. So, I'm going to just give you some examples here. Okay. Now, I'm going to call out a few different ines. I'll just show you to do this. So, how do you build them into the identity of the person who becomes a buyer? That's called an NPQ identity frame. Write this down. Now, this is why so many of you, you see something I do on Instagram or LinkedIn or Facebook, like a 60-second reel, and you use it, you get all excited, and it doesn't work >> because you don't know what to do before to set it up. You don't know what to do if it doesn't weigh in. >> That's the dabbler. Who's ready to stop being a dabbler? Raise your hand. Okay. Who's committed to master? Keep your hand up. Okay. All right. So, this is important here. You would never use this at the start of a conversation. So, this would not be the first thing you would say. If you do, you're going to get slapped in the face by the velvet hammer. That hurts really bad. Don't use this as the first question. Velvet hammer. I'll I'll tell you later. Okay. come come see me afterwards. All right. So, let's say after I asked two or three of my connection questions, it could even be on the door with the this is where I came up with pictures to get the guard down on the doors. This is where NPQ started. Okay. So, let's say after I ask those two or three connection questions, I might say something like this. And I just I threw a couple examples here. Let's say if you sold home improvement. Um just just give me an initial. I just I just do it myself. >> Solar. >> Okay. So, let's say solar. So, I ask them two or three connection questions, got their guard down, you know, and and hey, John, happy we're uh connecting. You know, it's it's so interesting. I just came from this house like three or four blocks away. You know, the type. So, closed off, one-word answers, thought they knew everything there was to know. And we all know people like that. We all know that just comes from fear. I mean, we all know people like that that can't open up and tell somebody their problems. It's like, how did they ever get where they want to go in life? You know what I mean? So, what were you hoping could happen by possibly going solar? >> No, I just said that. >> Okay, my bad. >> So, what did I do there? Did anybody catch what I did? >> What am I starting to build them into? What am I starting to cause them not to want to be like >> the person? Okay, do you guys know the type? You can't say this at the very beginning, though. If you do, I'm going to going to be upset. Didn't work. Jeremy, you don't know what to do before. Your tone is off. Oh, it's so interesting. You know, give me another industry. >> Plumbing. What are you solving in plumbing? >> I think we we just took over an account of the biggest plumbing >> contract in the United States. I think they're here in Utah. I think we're doing an event with them in February. >> UMC. >> Uh I might be Oh, is that you? >> Are we training you guys? We're about to train you guys. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Congratulations. Smart decision. Good. >> Who said Who said that? you well you sell stuff plumbing somebody okay so what do you solve now you got to know baby what do you solve >> can you stand up just give me the short answer you don't have to do it just give me the short answer like what do you solve >> you know how labor is a huge shortage in home services and technicians today's world >> so are you selling to like who are you selling to like >> I sell to contractors >> okay you're selling to contractors do you also like do plumbing for like consumers too or just contractors Yeah, think of our showroom. >> Is that what? Okay, so give me the problem. >> One of your last prospect's problems. Just >> water heater. >> That's not a problem. >> But what's the problem? >> Lack of lack of hot water. >> Okay, so the water went out and so the whole building was what? >> Cold. >> And what's the consequence of that? >> Who cares if it's cold? What's the consequence? >> Uncomfortability. No one wants to shower. >> Okay. in an office building like they have showers or you talking about a house? >> Oh, a general contractor that builds a house. Is that what you're saying? Oh, okay. That makes more sense. I'm like I was trying to Okay. Might wrap my around. Okay. So, I might get into that conversation with a general contractor and maybe my third or fourth connection. I'm going to do it towards the end. You know, happy were, you know, connecting. It's it's so interesting. Uh, you know, James, I I was talking with this this other contractor. I mean, you know, the the type, the contractor type, so closed off, just one word answers, thought they knew everything there was to know. And we all know that just comes from fear. I mean, we all know that people like that that, you know, companies like that who can't open up and tell somebody their problems, it's like, how did they ever get them solved? You know what I mean? Anyways, what were you hoping could happen by possibly working something out? Now, what is that person going to do? He's be like, oh I don't want to give one-word answers. I don't want to be closed off. I want to be the type that thinks they know everything. And what am I starting to prevent? Prospects giving you one-word answers, vague general. Are you Did I run over anybody? You guys okay? >> Raise your hand if you're starting to understand this. These are identity frames. You got to know when and how with the right tone because what if I did this? Yeah. It's interesting. were connecting and it's funny because I was just talking with this guy like three or four months ago and the type and you know they're like closed off and and not interested and we all know that those people never succeed. You know what I mean? That's not an identity frame. That's what happens when you're a dabbler. All right. How many of you get prospects that minimize their pain? >> Why? Why do they do that? >> They're scared. >> Maybe you like them. Well, why would they be scared to buy even though they have problems? That doesn't make any sense. >> They're afraid of change. >> Afraid of change. We got we got to we got somebody starting to pick this up. They're afraid of change. That's the core, right? They have problems. They know they need to solve them. But the brain anytime we feel like something is unknown or unsure or we haven't done it before, the bra, it's like the brain's last attempt to keep us in the >> status quo safe. The brain was never designed to thrive. is only designed to keep you safe and to survive. Thank God. But now we have to learn how to thrive, right? So I have to change their identity to get them into that. >> Can I do that in a sales conversation? >> Only if I know how. >> Yes. Can I do that in if I sell to like larger companies? Can I do that over like a period of six, seven, eight months? Oh yes, for sure. If I learn how. Right. Okay. So I want to role play this. Uh let's have somebody from a different industry than this gentleman come up here. You in the back, sir? Come on up. And then we're gonna get a lady boss up here. I promise I got you. I got you. Lady bosses, come up here. I mean, it's only like a 99% to one thing here with the lady bosses compared to the men. Nick, what's going on here with these tickets? Were you only targeting men or what happened? What's going on? Okay, what do you sell? >> Life insurance. >> Oh yeah, life insurance is the actually the largest space we train. Life insurance, final expense, mortgage protection, commercial insurance, PNC. What do you sell in just general life? >> Oh yeah. >> Okay, perfect. Okay. So, um, are you calling like age leads, new leads that respond to an ad? Who are you calling? >> So, the one that I've been doing recently is based on a marketing campaign called ETO. >> So, they respond to an ad. >> Exactly. So, what they're doing is they're submitting an application, but for whatever reason, they didn't finish the application. >> Okay. So, you're just calling them back like a week later, 2 days later. >> Uh, yeah. Typically like 0 to 30 days. >> Okay. So, I don't want to hear the first part of the conversation. >> Sure. >> I want to hear what questions you're asking them to help find out what their problems are. >> Understood. >> Yeah. You guys, you guys ready? I'm gonna show you what you did well because I'm sure there's a lot of stuff you did well and then if needed show you what maybe you could tweak. Yeah, that help. Okay, let's go. And we've already answered the phone. We're already talking. You got my guard down. Great job. You >> one of Jeremy's clients. Well done. And then now you're building the gap. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Hey Jeremy, just that way I don't assume anything. When you were filling out the application, >> it's typically two reasons. Either you were disappointed with the price point or you just weren't getting the coverage that you initially wanted or what you said a mixture of both. >> Yeah, I mean I have a I have a small You would have already found out I had a policy obviously for that question. Okay, that makes sense. Okay, is more about the price like can you get it to me cheaper? >> Yeah, but just again that way I don't assume anything I guess. >> Did something happen recently that you're looking into it >> or you just always want to look into just never had the time? I just never had the time. >> Understood. So, I guess for you just what kind of makes this important? Just want to make sure that >> I'm always just looking for, you know, I know I need to do it eventually. You know, I'm young. I'm like low 30s. So, I I know I need to do this the next few years or something like that. I'm in really good health. Like my dad like he lived till he was like 96 and my mom's like I think she's going to go to 100 subs. They have really good family genans. But, you know, I need to look into this eventually. >> Understood. Yeah. So I guess for you obviously I mean it seems like you have you know really good jeans or you're not worrying about you know passing away or anything like that. >> No, not really. >> I guess for you it seems like most people and correct me if I'm wrong it's because they just kind of want to protect their family in case something happens to them, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, I'm pretty healthy now though. >> Got it. So I guess for you cuz if you were filling out the application and taking time out of your day to like fill out the application, I guess was there any reasoning behind that? >> Well, yeah. Yeah, I just like I said, I was just trying to find out kind of what you did and price point. See if I can get a cheaper price than what I have now. >> Got it. So, just as in the price point when it comes to just the coverage alone is is there was there a budget that you were allocating towards that? >> Well, I'm paying like 185 for mine like I need to get it down to like 130ish. >> Okay. >> What do you have? >> Yeah. So, I don't really understand kind of where you're coming from in the sense of what you generally. >> Wait, stop. Good. There's some things you did well there. Okay. Tone. And it's, you know, it's rough getting in front of a couple hundred, 200 people of role playing. So, everybody give it up. >> Good job, baby. Let's go. >> Good job, baby. So, you're the pacing's good >> questions. Can I help you? >> Absolutely. >> Okay. So, let's say that I see the question you asked is not necessarily that question, which is how you asked it. your tongue. So the some did something recently happen question. Okay. You want me to show you? >> Absolutely. >> So did did something like recently happen or or what caused you to feel like maybe you need more coverage? >> What am I starting to see? >> What tone did I use there? >> Concerned. >> Concerned. use the curious tone which in other parts of the conversation I want to use. But if I want to see doubt and open up the prospect because do we all understand typically when we ask questions to find problems like hey what are some of your challenges or what keep awake at night like what are some problems you have? Do we understand that our prospects kind of know where those questions lead? Yes or >> no? >> Yes. Yes or no? >> So that's why they start to go surface level because they recognize the pattern. See our brains recognize patterns. Your survival party brain recognizes patterns. So when we say things like just following up, just circling back, just checking in. How many times have they heard that from every salesperson trying to sell them anything and they recognize the pattern? >> Oh, not interested. It's a pattern. >> How do I interrupt the pattern? >> My tone. >> Now, probably what I would more than likely do, let's say if I found out you had like a uh like a work policy of 50,000 because that could happen, right? And a lot of sales people and insurance, they struggle. They like, well, they already got a policy. They're not going to need it. But here's what I do. You just got to reframe it. Like, so help me understand like you you've already got this $50,000 word policy. What's causing you to feel like that might not be enough? What am I doing >> now? What he does is do what? Well, yeah, I got the policy, but and now he tells me why he doesn't feel it's a >> enough. And more importantly, who does he tell? >> Himself. You see how I'm showing you how to start reframing some of your questions? I'm what? Interrupting the pattern. Now I get him to defend himself on why he's looking for more because he already has something. But if I said it, so you've I mean I don't understand like you got this $50,000 policy. What's causing you to feel like it might not be enough, man? Oh, I don't know. Like I'm just always looking. I said the same words. It's how I say the words. Are you getting this? Yeah. Okay, good. Good job, man. >> Thanks, man. >> Now, there's some other things I would show you there, but like that's that's a start. Now, this is called these are called problem awareness questions. I'm probably going to run out of time, so you're going to have to throw me off here. These are called problem awareness questions. Now, why do I need to master problem awareness questions? Can we get this on the board when you guys have time? There's three reasons why I need to ask problem awareness questions. Reason number one, what are the prospect's real problems? Notice I didn't say problem. I said >> problems. >> I said >> I said >> I said >> problems. >> Problems. >> You know what happens most of the time? Prospect tells you a problem and you do what? Oh, well, let me show you how to solve that. And once you do that, how big is that gap? Maybe here. What if I didn't take the bait? Yeah, that's a big problem. That's the biggest reason why companies or space come to us for sure. What else do you feel like might be going on? So I want to find multiple problems. Why do I want to find multiple problems? Because that builds a much bigger gap that causes them to feel like they need me more, right? Because if I don't build that gap and I only find one problem, what's to say that let's say marketing agents, they're like, you know, maybe we can just figure this out on our own. But if I help them find two, three, four, five, six different reasons why they want to change, it's pretty damn hard. the gap is so big that they of course have to go with you because no other salesperson knows even how to fill the gap. So instead of like lowering the price like with the insurance, see how I'm doing that is getting him back into costbased thinking. Not not so is the So help me understand is the cheapest price the most important to you or actually having enough coverage to like pay off the house for sending the kids so she's not forced to go get like a second job when you pass. Now, what did I just take them out of? Price or cost based thinking to >> results based thinking. You guys want to master this? It's a lot of fun. You can help a lot of people. Is it sucks not being able to help people you want to help if you don't know how to communicate? Yeah. >> Yeah. Okay. Good. So, and number two, what is the root cause of the problem and how the how are the problems affecting them even personally? Now, these are some generic frames right here. I'm just going to show you a few of these because we got a fly here. So, these are generic. You're not going to like just use generic frames, okay? Like you we have I have to show you how to tie it into your industry. That's why people come to us. Okay? So, help me understand. Do you 100% love the results you've been getting? Not I wouldn't ask that for solar. It wouldn't make any sense. Let's say if I uh sold financial services like investing. So, you've been with the merit price the last five years. Like, are you 100% in love with the returns you've been getting? >> Well, I wouldn't say it's 100%. Not 100%. What? What don't you like? Why did I put 100% there? >> Cuz nobody is happy with anything 100%. Does everybody understand the brain works that way? Think about the person you're dating with or married with. Now, the first couple of months, you loved them. They were floating on cloud nine. They could do no wrong. Six months later, you found what? >> Things you didn't like. Nobody likes anything 100%. >> You see how I'm framing it to focus the brain on not do they like it, but do they like it 100%. That's a whole different conversation. You see what I'm doing? I'm building the gap automatically. Now, what if I say like this? So, do you uh do 100% like the thing you're doing? Yeah, it's pretty good. The tone the tone separate. So, so help me understand like do you 100% like the results they've been getting for you? What does my tone sound like? >> I'm concerned for you. I know something that you might not know. That triggers what? >> Doubt. No. Concerned tone triggers doubt. Curious tone triggers like he's generally curious. Okay, you guys are killing me. You're just making that up, right? Okay. Now, let's see. I can do this here. What if I'm a real estate? Anybody a real estate agent? Okay. Real estate agent. Second biggest industry we've trained. Okay. So, most real estate agents like, "Well, why do you want to sell the home?" Blah blah blah blah. Surface level answer. No, I'm not going to do that. Help me understand. You have a really nice home here. Like, what's caused you to feel like you might want to sell it? If I'm trying to get the listing, so help me understand like you guys have a really nice property. What's causing you to feel like you might want to sell it? Well, we like it, bud. >> Bam. >> Bam. Oh, it's so simple once you learn the frames. So hard when you don't. I know you guys want to. Okay, now let's give me another one here and we're going to go here. We only got 30 minutes here. So, hold on. You've been with XYZ agency the last two years. What's caused you to feel like they can't help you scale to $8 million a month? Whatever they said. I'm just putting it back here. Okay. Or I could say, so let's say they say, "Oh, our leads are bad and we're we're not been able to scale." I mean, do you want that to keep happening if you if you didn't have to? That's another frame I didn't even show you. Oh, I've got so many frames to show you. So little time. Oh my gosh. Uh, let's see. I mean, solar. So, they're you you get them open up about their bill, the the rate hikes, all that stuff. I mean, do you do you want to have to keep being forced to pay the rate hikes if you if you didn't have to? Well, no. Of course not. But see how I paste it out. What are those little periods there? Do I just not know punctuation? That's called a verbal That's called a verbal pause. Write down verbal pause. You have so much to learn. So little time. I mean, hold on. I mean, you've been with XYZ company the last seven years. I mean, they're fairly decent. I mean, what's caused you to feel like you might want to look at someone else? What am I doing? fairly. So, I don't want to say, "Oh, you have you're with a great company." Because that just reinforces their frame. I should stay. I don't want to say that company sucks because now they know you're trying to sell them. So, I'm going to say fairly decent because I'm in the middle. But notice how my tone shifts. Yeah. I mean, you've been with them the last 12 years. I mean, they're fairly decent. I mean, what's I mean, they're not too bad. I mean, what's causing? You guys starting to get this? Raise your hand if you want to master sewing. Okay. All right. Let's keep going here. Oh, we're just Oh gosh. Okay. I wish I could have you master everything in 97 minutes. Dog gone it. Okay. Now, let's keep going here. Now, this is important here. There are five types of tone you must master if you want to sell a lot more than you are now. How many of you have read a book that says 93% of communication is your non-verbal? Raise your hand. every damn sales book in the planet just copied and pasted that. I swear, you know, it comes actually from the 1940s by a survey that they did. It's not even accurate. They've redone my friend, I have a friend, body language expert called Mark Bowden, teaches a lot of EU parliament how to use body language and stuff, but they've updated this. So 93% of your communication making the sale is your non-verbal, your tone, your body language. 7%'s the words. Holy that's crazy. Now, they've updated that study. 72% of you making the sale is your tonality, how you say it, how you ask the question, and your body language. About 28% is still the words. Words matter. Questions matter. Okay, we might want to learn this thing. So, there's a curious tone. So, walk me through. What do you guys do now to generate new leads and clients? So, walk me through like where do you typically invest your funds just so I can see how we could possibly help you? Okay. It's different things I could do. Uh, so your your your your bill, can you tell me a little bit more about your bill? I I know in the summer I I know that most of the year it's pretty low, but what what have they been making you pay lately? So, tell me a little bit about your bill. I I know a lot of the year it's pretty low, but what have they been making you pay lately? What am I doing? Solar guys, tell me a little bit about your bill. I know a lot of the year is pretty low, but what have they been making you pay lately? Why would I do that? Why would I say most of the year it's pretty low? Because what are they used to from sales people that knock on their door? Solar. >> Oh, the bill's really high. No, it's not. Even though it is defensive mechanism because they know you're trying to sell them something. So, why do I downplay it? >> They upplay it. That's called mismatch. I know a lot of the ear is pretty low, but what have they been what have they been making you pay lately? What tone? >> Concern tone. Making you pay. Does anybody like to be made or forced to do anything? >> Oh, what am I starting to shift there? >> I'm starting to get them to not like who's been forcing them to pay. But if I'm like, "How much are you paying?" Doesn't do anything. No doubt. Lots of objections. Who loves handling objections? >> I hate objections. I just like to prevent them from happening in their mind. >> It's so much easier to sell. You can sell like 10 times more if you just prevent objections. You ever heard sales trainers like the more objections they give you, the more interested they are. How the f does that make any sense? What about all the layowns you got that gave you no objections? They seem pretty easy to sail. So the more objections I get, the more they're going to that just they just said that to make you feel better about yourself. Everybody realizes that we we all smart. This is a smart room, right? We all know this right? >> Okay, write that down. The more objections you get, the less likely they're going to buy cuz they're triggered. Their guards up. I'd rather prevent the objection from happening in their brain. Cuz who causes the objection? The salesperson causes the objection, not the prospect. We all know this, right? Okay, you're starting to get this. All right. How am I going to get this suggestion? That's too expensive. I can't How much time do I have left team back there? Am I getting kicked off? >> I have 20. I have 10 minutes. >> 25. >> Can I take 23? Okay. >> All right. So, that's too expensive. Anybody get this objection? >> Okay. I need a lady boss to volunteer. Hey, lady boss. Come on up. Got to get the lady. >> Let's go, lady. >> Oh my god. I I all these guys. How do you do How do you do it? What do you sell Jennifer? >> Home transformation. >> That sounds a bit salesy. Just saying. But what's home What's a home transformation? Like an interior designer? >> We do a home organization. We help people save time and live a better lifestyle. >> Okay. So you help people like save time like busy executives so they're not like sitting there all day Saturday organizing their closet like hating life. >> Exactly. >> That sounds a lot better. >> I like that for sure. >> Okay. >> That's exact. That's what I said. >> Jennifer, I love what you do. >> It's just too expensive right now. I'm so sorry. Can you call me back in like six months? Like I'd be in a better position then. >> I would probably say sure. Hold on. Are you Hold on. Are you >> honest? >> Are you going to buy into their story? >> No. >> Do they need you? >> Yes. >> If >> Yes, they do. >> Yes, they do. Is selling something you're doing to them or for them? >> For them. >> Why? >> Because they need it. >> Why? >> Because they're overwhelmed. >> Yeah. and stressed. >> Yeah. >> And everyone wants more time. >> Yeah. >> You can't buy into their store anymore. >> Do you understand that? >> Because you offer them no effing value if you do. >> It's true. >> Is that why you got into what you're doing so you could help people? >> Yes. That's exactly what I did. >> Stop buying into their story. >> Because we all know that's a story, right? We all know they need you. >> Okay. So, what could I do maybe instead? Let me show you something if I have time. Okay, let's see. I think I wrote this out for you guys somewhere. Let's see. Oh, yes. Now, so that prospect that gave you that objection, that tells me they're what? What does that tell me? >> I didn't do my job. I didn't sell the value. >> Well, no, it has nothing to do with the value. It's the perception of the value. Yeah, >> correct. >> How do they perceive the value? >> Okay, let's write this down. This is called a comparative frame. NPQ comparative frame. Because right now, this prospect that gave you that objection is in what way of thinking? Price or costbased thinking. So, how do I take them out of that to the end result? >> You want to learn? >> Yes. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, in in reality, if you really thought about it, like which is I mean, really, which is costing you more? I mean, is it costing you more to like get the funding together, you know, we come in, we organize your entire house, and you're saving about like 6 hours every weekend so you can actually focus on your work. Or is it more expensive to do nothing at all and the clothes are all over the place and you're having to spend your entire weekend working in reality, which is costing you more? concern tone. >> See the shift down? Why? Why would I shift down at a concerned tone at the end? Cuz I'm effing concerned for you. Actually, that's why. Cuz that would really suck to have to be spend the whole weekend. Does everybody understand this? Like selling is not something you do to them. It's for them. So, if I'm mastering my tonality to get their guard down, am I doing that to manipulate them or to actually get their guard down so I can freaking help them? >> I'm doing it for them. >> These are not We don't manipulate people. This is what selling is. You're doing it for them, not to them. If I can't get their guard down, what's the likelihood they're going to buy? Unlikely. If I keep them in price or cost space, what's unlikely they're going to buy? Unlikely. If I don't learn how to do this, I offered them no value. I wasted their time. You don't want to waste their time anymore, do you? >> No. >> Why? >> Doesn't help either of you. That's why you're in sales, right? Okay. So, you see that reframe? Okay. See, now I'm getting you to think what? Which is costing me more? Now, I'm not going to stop there. I'm going to go right here after this. Okay. You want to try? You'll have to look at it. It takes a while to learn this stuff. H Jennifer, it's just it's just it's just a lot of cost. It's kind of too expensive. You got to Here, let's come over. You got to kind of like look at me and glance like Okay, there. It's just a lot of money, Jennifer. Like just c it's just the cost. Yeah. >> Look there. >> Am I reading that? >> Yeah. We'll just put it up here like we're going to hear you. I mean, you're gonna It's going to sound scripted right now obviously. I mean, in which reality does it cost more? Is it more expensive to set the funds together? We set the implants in. >> Oh, this is a different This is like dental implants. I just threw it up there. >> Well, just just just just plug just plug in the the thing that you do. So, you just you just plug in the thing you do. >> Is it is it more expensive the funding together? We come in, we take care of your >> come in, we take care of your home, you organize and reset your life. Reframe the way you've been living into the way you want to live >> in reality which is >> which is >> more expensive in reality which is more >> All right. Give it up. All right. Good. Good job. Good job. Good job. >> Now I'm going to show you some tweaks. >> Okay. >> Cuz that's still kind of surface level changing your life. They here all this time. It's like it's like in one out there. I mean, in reality, which is more expensive? Is it more expensive for like you get the funding together, we come in, we completely organize your closets, we completely do all of the clothes, we completely like do everything on the floors and you're not having to be forced to spend your entire weekend like slaving away. Or is it more expensive to do nothing at all and you're working eight hours a day just to like mow the lawn and blah blah blah blah in reality? Which is more expensive? See, I got to describe it. I got to frame it a little bit like that would really suck to have to do all that work if they told me that, right? I got to pull that out of them, right? I don't make up a number. I pull that out. Does that help? Now, after I do that, I don't just stop. This is called an intention frame. So, how much of your services? How much do they cost? >> 2500 a day. >> So, how many days do you need to come in? two days, three days. >> Um, on average, four days. >> Let's say four days. 10 grand. Yeah. Okay. So, right up to in reality, which is more expensive? Because I'm sure it's not your real intention just to keep the $10,000 in your bank account for the rest of your life and hope and pray it just stays there forever with all the inflation. I'm sure your real intention is to never have to work on the weekends again in your life. So, if you really thought about what's going to put you in the best position where you can save that time and be with your family and have somebody else do all that work for you, intention. >> See how I reframed her? What's her real intention? Give me another one. Uh, let's give me another interest over here. >> What? >> Business coaching. >> Okay. Like business consulting, helping them scale, building systems. Yeah. Because I'm sure it's I mean, in reality, which is more expensive? Is it more expensive to get your funding together? We come in with our internal team and we build out your systems and you're able to scale to $10 million this month, you know, in the next year, or is it more expensive to do nothing at all? you know, you guys stay with the same systems and you never end up scaling? I mean, in reality, which is more expensive? Because I'm sure it's not your real intention just to keep the $76,000 in your bank account, just hope and pray it like stays there forever, especially with all the inflation going on. I'm sure it's your real intention is to really grow your business where you never have to worry about money again in your life, right? So, what's going to put you in the best position where you never have to worry because you're able to scale? Who wants to master this? Raise your hand. >> Let's go, baby. >> This is why people like you guys come to us. Okay, does that help everybody? Thank you very much. Let's go, baby. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
